versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/typescript/type-helpers.mdx, before:

---
title: Type helpers
---

<!-- Needs technical review -->

<!-- deps: ["context-typescript","events-typescript","running-machines-intro","intro-to-state-api"] -->

XState makes several type helpers available to you for composing types in TypeScript. You can use these helpers for creating custom functions or typing various integrations.

## `SnapshotFrom`

`SnapshotFrom` can be used to extract the `State` from a machine.

```ts
import { createMachine, SnapshotFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
});

const myFunction = (snapshot: SnapshotFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  const context = state.context;
};
```

## `ContextFrom`

`ContextFrom` can be used to extract the `context` from a machine.

```ts
import { createMachine, ContextFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
});

const myFunction = (context: ContextFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  console.log(context);
};
```

## `EventFrom`

`EventFrom` can be used to extract the `event` types from a machine

```ts
import { createMachine, EventFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    events: {} as
      | {
          type: 'FOO';
        }
      | {
          type: 'BAR';
          value: string;
        },
  },
});

const myFunction = (event: EventFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  console.log(event);
};
```

You can also extract _specific_ events by passing the type to the second generic slot.

```ts
import { createMachine, EventFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    events: {} as
      | {
          type: 'FOO';
        }
      | {
          type: 'BAR';
          value: string;
        },
  },
});

const myFunction = (event: EventFrom<typeof machine, 'BAR'>) => {
  console.log(event);
};
```

## `InterpreterFrom`

`InterpreterFrom` gives you the type of the actor returned from `interpret` or `useInterpret`.

```ts
import { createMachine, InterpreterFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
});

const myFunction = (actor: InterpreterFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  const context = actor.state.context;
};
```

## `ActorRefFrom`

`ActorRefFrom` is especially useful when [spawning actors](/xstate/actors/spawn.mdx) because it types the reference created by `spawn` when assigning to context.

```ts
import { createMachine, ActorRefFrom, spawn, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({});

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      spawnedChild: ActorRefFrom<typeof childMachine>;
    },
  },
  entry: [
    assign((context, event) => {
      return {
        spawnedChild: spawn(childMachine),
      };
    }),
  ],
});
```

## `MachineOptionsFrom`

You can use `MachineOptionsFrom` in combination with [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx) to get a strongly typed version of the machine’s options.

```ts
export interface Typegen0 {
  '@@xstate/typegen': true;
  eventsCausingActions: {
    sayHello: 'xstate.init';
  };
  internalEvents: {
    'xstate.init': { type: 'xstate.init' };
  };
  invokeSrcNameMap: {};
  missingImplementations: {
    actions: 'sayHello' | 'sayHelloAgain';
    actors: never;
    guards: never;
    delays: never;
  };
  eventsCausingactors: {};
  eventsCausingGuards: {};
  eventsCausingDelays: {};
  matchesStates: undefined;
  tags: never;
}

import { createMachine, MachineOptionsFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
  entry: ['sayHello', 'sayHelloAgain'],
  tsTypes: {} as import('./myMachine.typegen').Typegen0,
});

const options: MachineOptionsFrom<typeof machine> = {
  actions: {
    sayHello: (context) => {},
  },
};
```

You can also pass `true` to the second element of the generic to ensure that all missing implementations are passed. In the example below, `sayGoodbye` is missing, so **must** be passed when you pass `true` to `MachineOptionsFrom`.

```ts
export interface Typegen0 {
  '@@xstate/typegen': true;
  eventsCausingActions: {
    sayHello: 'xstate.init';
  };
  internalEvents: {
    'xstate.init': { type: 'xstate.init' };
  };
  invokeSrcNameMap: {};
  missingImplementations: {
    actions: 'sayGoodbye';
    actors: never;
    guards: never;
    delays: never;
  };
  eventsCausingactors: {};
  eventsCausingGuards: {};
  eventsCausingDelays: {};
  matchesStates: undefined;
  tags: never;
}

import { createMachine, MachineOptionsFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['sayHello'],
    exit: ['sayGoodbye'],
    tsTypes: {} as import('./myMachine.typegen').Typegen0,
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello');
      },
    },
  },
);

const options: MachineOptionsFrom<typeof machine, true> = {
  actions: {
    /**
     * This MUST be passed because of the `true` passed in above
     */
    sayGoodbye: () => {},
  },
};
```

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/typescript/type-helpers.mdx, after:

---
title: Type helpers
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about TypeScript in XState v5](/docs/machines#typescript).

:::

XState makes several type helpers available to you for composing types in TypeScript. You can use these helpers for creating custom functions or typing various integrations.

## `SnapshotFrom`

`SnapshotFrom` can be used to extract the `State` from a machine.

```ts
import { createMachine, SnapshotFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
});

const myFunction = (snapshot: SnapshotFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  const context = state.context;
};
```

## `ContextFrom`

`ContextFrom` can be used to extract the `context` from a machine.

```ts
import { createMachine, ContextFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
});

const myFunction = (context: ContextFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  console.log(context);
};
```

## `EventFrom`

`EventFrom` can be used to extract the `event` types from a machine

```ts
import { createMachine, EventFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    events: {} as
      | {
          type: 'FOO';
        }
      | {
          type: 'BAR';
          value: string;
        },
  },
});

const myFunction = (event: EventFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  console.log(event);
};
```

You can also extract _specific_ events by passing the type to the second generic slot.

```ts
import { createMachine, EventFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    events: {} as
      | {
          type: 'FOO';
        }
      | {
          type: 'BAR';
          value: string;
        },
  },
});

const myFunction = (event: EventFrom<typeof machine, 'BAR'>) => {
  console.log(event);
};
```

## `InterpreterFrom`

`InterpreterFrom` gives you the type of the actor returned from `interpret` or `useInterpret`.

```ts
import { createMachine, InterpreterFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
});

const myFunction = (actor: InterpreterFrom<typeof machine>) => {
  const context = actor.state.context;
};
```

## `ActorRefFrom`

`ActorRefFrom` is especially useful when [spawning actors](/xstate/actors/spawn.mdx) because it types the reference created by `spawn` when assigning to context.

```ts
import { createMachine, ActorRefFrom, spawn, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({});

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      spawnedChild: ActorRefFrom<typeof childMachine>;
    },
  },
  entry: [
    assign((context, event) => {
      return {
        spawnedChild: spawn(childMachine),
      };
    }),
  ],
});
```

## `MachineOptionsFrom`

You can use `MachineOptionsFrom` in combination with [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx) to get a strongly typed version of the machine’s options.

```ts
export interface Typegen0 {
  '@@xstate/typegen': true;
  eventsCausingActions: {
    sayHello: 'xstate.init';
  };
  internalEvents: {
    'xstate.init': { type: 'xstate.init' };
  };
  invokeSrcNameMap: {};
  missingImplementations: {
    actions: 'sayHello' | 'sayHelloAgain';
    actors: never;
    guards: never;
    delays: never;
  };
  eventsCausingactors: {};
  eventsCausingGuards: {};
  eventsCausingDelays: {};
  matchesStates: undefined;
  tags: never;
}

import { createMachine, MachineOptionsFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as {
      count: number;
    },
  },
  entry: ['sayHello', 'sayHelloAgain'],
  tsTypes: {} as import('./myMachine.typegen').Typegen0,
});

const options: MachineOptionsFrom<typeof machine> = {
  actions: {
    sayHello: (context) => {},
  },
};
```

You can also pass `true` to the second element of the generic to ensure that all missing implementations are passed. In the example below, `sayGoodbye` is missing, so **must** be passed when you pass `true` to `MachineOptionsFrom`.

```ts
export interface Typegen0 {
  '@@xstate/typegen': true;
  eventsCausingActions: {
    sayHello: 'xstate.init';
  };
  internalEvents: {
    'xstate.init': { type: 'xstate.init' };
  };
  invokeSrcNameMap: {};
  missingImplementations: {
    actions: 'sayGoodbye';
    actors: never;
    guards: never;
    delays: never;
  };
  eventsCausingactors: {};
  eventsCausingGuards: {};
  eventsCausingDelays: {};
  matchesStates: undefined;
  tags: never;
}

import { createMachine, MachineOptionsFrom } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['sayHello'],
    exit: ['sayGoodbye'],
    tsTypes: {} as import('./myMachine.typegen').Typegen0,
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello');
      },
    },
  },
);

const options: MachineOptionsFrom<typeof machine, true> = {
  actions: {
    /**
     * This MUST be passed because of the `true` passed in above
     */
    sayGoodbye: () => {},
  },
};
```
