docs/actions-and-actors/actors.mdx, before:

---
title: Actors
---

When you run a statechart, it becomes an actor: a running process that can receive messages, send messages and change its behavior based on the messages it receives, which can cause effects outside of the actor.

An invoked actor is an actor that can execute its own actions and communicate with the machine. These invoked actors are started in a state and stopped when the state is exited.

:::video

Watch our [“What are invoked actors?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRMS8NYKWnA&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=9) (1m57s).

:::

Invoked actors are are labeled on their invoking state with “Invoke /” followed by the actor’s source name and ID.

You can invoke multiple actors on a single state. Top-level final states cannot have invoked actors.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.light.png',
      dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135).

In the video player above, the *startVideo* actor is invoked when the video player is in the *Opened* state.

## Invoke actors on a state

First, select the state where you want to invoke an actor.

## On the canvas

1. Select the state where you want to invoke an actor.
2. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Invoked actor** from the menu to add an invoked actor block to the event.
4. Write your actor’s source in the invoked actors’s text input.

### Add actor source logic and ID

1. Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the **Invoked actor** panel.
2. Enter the actor’s source logic in the **Source logic** text input.
3. Enter the actor’s ID in the **Actor ID** text input.

## Using the event details panel

1. Select the state where you want to invoke an actor.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+ Effect** button to open the effects menu, and choose **Add invoked actor**.
4. Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the **Invoked actor** panel.
5. Enter the actor’s source logic in the **Source logic** text input.
6. Enter the actor’s ID in the **Actor ID** text input.
:::xstate

## Looking for how to use actors in XState?

Find out [more about using actors in XState](/xstate/actors/intro.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

More search engine optimisation (#171)
* Paginate blog posts to improve performance

* Fix tip box at end of actors page

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Add meta descriptions for coc and privacy pages

Towards STA-4286

* Start writing custom meta descriptions for docs pages

* Change site title to Stately docs and blog

Towards STA-4518

* Take back change of title, as not SEO-friendly in length

* Shorten over-long blog post titles for SEO

* Fix typo

* Add/improve meta descriptions for model-based testing section.

* Improve meta descriptions for XState package docs

docs/actions-and-actors/actors.mdx, after:

---
title: Actors
description: "When you run a statechart, it becomes an actor: a running process that can receive and send messages, and change its behavior based on messages it receives."
---

When you run a statechart, it becomes an actor: a running process that can receive messages, send messages and change its behavior based on the messages it receives, which can cause effects outside of the actor.

An invoked actor is an actor that can execute its own actions and communicate with the machine. These invoked actors are started in a state and stopped when the state is exited.

:::video

Watch our [“What are invoked actors?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRMS8NYKWnA&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=9) (1m57s).

:::

Invoked actors are are labeled on their invoking state with “Invoke /” followed by the actor’s source name and ID.

You can invoke multiple actors on a single state. Top-level final states cannot have invoked actors.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.light.png',
      dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135).

In the video player above, the *startVideo* actor is invoked when the video player is in the *Opened* state.

## Invoke actors on a state

First, select the state where you want to invoke an actor.

## On the canvas

1. Select the state where you want to invoke an actor.
2. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Invoked actor** from the menu to add an invoked actor block to the event.
4. Write your actor’s source in the invoked actors’s text input.

### Add actor source logic and ID

1. Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the **Invoked actor** panel.
2. Enter the actor’s source logic in the **Source logic** text input.
3. Enter the actor’s ID in the **Actor ID** text input.

## Using the event details panel

1. Select the state where you want to invoke an actor.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+ Effect** button to open the effects menu, and choose **Add invoked actor**.
4. Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the **Invoked actor** panel.
5. Enter the actor’s source logic in the **Source logic** text input.
6. Enter the actor’s ID in the **Actor ID** text input.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use actors in XState?

Find out [more about using actors in XState](/xstate/actors/intro.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
