docs/xstate/basics/inline-vs-named-options.mdx, before:

---
title: Inline vs. named Options
---

# Inline vs. named Options

<!-- deps: ["options-api"] -->

In the examples so far, we’ve passed options into the config using names:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
});
```

These are called **named** actions. You can do the same with named guards, actors and delays, and we’ll get to those later.

However, if you don’t want to name your actions, you can also declare them inline:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    () => {
      console.log('Hello!');
    },
  ],
});
```

The difference between named and inline options is mostly stylistic. We support both approaches, and you can mix-and-match named and inline options within the same machine:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: [
      // Inline
      () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    ],
    exit: [
      // Named
      'sayGoodbye',
    ],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('sayGoodbye');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

Named options are preferred when using [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen) and also show up better when visualized with our [VS Code extension](/tools/xstate-vscode-extension). Named options show their name, whereas inline options show an “Inline” label.

When not using typegen, inline options can often give you better type inference than named options.

Commit message:

Improve intros or add descriptions to docs page
This generates better page descriptions in the index pages and also for the meta/open graph descriptions.

Closes STA-2962

docs/xstate/basics/inline-vs-named-options.mdx, after:

---
title: Inline vs. named Options
description: 'Named actions are when you pass options into the config using names. You can also declare your actions inline without names.'
---

# Inline vs. named Options

<!-- deps: ["options-api"] -->

In the examples so far, we’ve passed options into the config using names:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
});
```

These are called **named** actions. You can do the same with named guards, actors and delays, and we’ll get to those later.

However, if you don’t want to name your actions, you can also declare them inline:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    () => {
      console.log('Hello!');
    },
  ],
});
```

The difference between named and inline options is mostly stylistic. We support both approaches, and you can mix-and-match named and inline options within the same machine:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: [
      // Inline
      () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    ],
    exit: [
      // Named
      'sayGoodbye',
    ],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('sayGoodbye');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

Named options are preferred when using [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen) and also show up better when visualized with our [VS Code extension](/tools/xstate-vscode-extension). Named options show their name, whereas inline options show an “Inline” label.

When not using typegen, inline options can often give you better type inference than named options.
