versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actions/built-in-actions.mdx, before:

---
title: Built-in actions
description: 'Along with the assign action, XState has several other built-in actions which can do different things in a state machine.'
---

# Built-in actions

Along with the [`assign`](context.mdx#assign-action) action, XState has several other built-in actions which can do different things in a state machine. We’ll introduce a couple of built-in actions for now and learn about the others later.

## Send action

<!-- deps:
  ["actions", "transitions-and-events", "self-transitions"] -->

XState’s built-in `send` action is useful for when statecharts need to send events back to themselves.

When the send action is executed, it sends an event back to the machine _as if it were from an external source_.

This pattern can help compose different flows together. In the example below, the user can either press the `copy` button or press `ctrl + c` to fire a `COPY` event to the machine. Using the `send` action to fire the same event from both actions reduces duplication.

```ts
import { createMachine, send } from 'xstate';

const keyboardShortcutMachine = createMachine({
  on: {
    PRESS_COPY_BUTTON: {
      actions: send({ type: 'COPY' }),
    },
    PRESS_CTRL_C: {
      actions: send({ type: 'COPY' }),
    },
    COPY: {
      actions: 'copyToClipboard',
    },
  },
});
```

You can also dynamically specify the event to send by passing a function to `send`:

```ts
send((context, event) => {
  return {
    type: 'SOME_EVENT',
  };
});
```

### Sending events to actors

With the `sendTo` action, events can be sent to actors:

```ts
import { actions, AnyActorRef, assign, createMachine, spawn } from 'xstate';
const { sendTo } = actions;

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: { context: {} as { someRef: AnyActorRef } },
  states: {
    active: {
      entry: assign({
        someRef: () => spawn(someMachine),
      }),
      on: {
        // highlight-start
        SOME_EVENT: {
          actions: (context) => sendTo(context.someRef, { type: 'PING' }),
        },
        // highlight-end
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Raise action

The `raise` action creator queues an event to the statechart, in the internal event queue.
This means the event is sent immediately on the current “step” of the interpreter.

```ts
import { createMachine, actions } from 'xstate';
const { raise } = actions;

// Demonstrate `raise` action
const raiseActionDemo = createMachine({
  id: 'Raise action demo',
  initial: 'entry',
  states: {
    entry: {
      on: {
        STEP: {
          target: 'middle',
        },
        RAISE: {
          target: 'middle',

          // highlight-start
          // immediately invoke the NEXT event in 'middle'
          actions: raise('NEXT'),
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    middle: {
      on: {
        NEXT: 'last',
      },
    },
    last: {
      on: {
        RESET: 'entry',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

Click on both `STEP` and `RAISE` events in the [visualizer](https://stately.ai/viz?gist=04bff4f2e4c5b4fa7f346dcd7fc21627) to see the difference.

## Pure action

<!-- deps: ["actions", "self-transitions"] -->

The `pure` action is useful when you need to run a dynamic number of actions depending on the current machine’s state.

`pure` lets you pass a function to the machine, which calculates the type and number of actions to be executed.

In the example below, we check `context` to find which actions the machine should run.

<!-- Remove noErrors when pure TS issue (https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/pull/3233) is fixed-->

```ts
import { actions, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const { pure } = actions;

createMachine({
  context: {
    runBothActions: false,
  },
  entry: pure((context) => {
    if (context.runBothActions) {
      // You can return an array of actions
      return ['action1', 'action2'];
    }
    // Or a single action
    return 'action1';
  }),
});
```

## Log action

The `log` action creator is a declarative way of logging anything related to the current state `context` and/or `event`. |

```ts
import { createMachine, actions } from 'xstate';
const { log } = actions;

const loggingMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'logging',
  context: { count: 42 },
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    start: {
      // highlight-end
      entry: log('started!'),
      on: {
        FINISH: {
          target: 'end',
          // highlight-start
          actions: log(
            (context, event) => `count: ${context.count}, event: ${event.type}`,

            'Finish label',
          ),
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    end: {},
  },
});

const endState = loggingMachine.transition('start', 'FINISH');
// highlight-start
endState.actions;
// the endState.actions array will now contain our log action:
// [
//   {
//     type: 'xstate.log',
//     label: 'Finish label',
//     expr: (context, event) => ...
//   }
// ]

// The interpreter would log the action's evaluated expression
// based on the current state context and event.
// highlight-end
```

Without any arguments, `log` is an action that logs an object with `context` and `event` properties, containing the current context and triggering event, respectively.

## Choose action

The `choose` action creator creates an action that specifies which actions should be executed based on some conditions.

:::danger
Do not use the `choose` action creator to execute actions that can otherwise be represented as non-conditional actions executed in certain states/transitions via `entry`, `exit`, or `actions`.
:::

```ts
import { actions } from 'xstate';
const { choose, log } = actions;

const maybeDoThese = choose([
  {
    cond: 'cond1',
    actions: [
      // selected when "cond1" is true
      log('cond1 chosen!'),
    ],
  },
  {
    cond: 'cond2',
    actions: [
      // selected when "cond1" is false and "cond2" is true
      log((context, event) => {
        /* ... */
      }),
      log('another action'),
    ],
  },
  {
    cond: (context, event) => {
      // some condition
      return false;
    },
    actions: [
      // selected when "cond1" and "cond2" are false and the inline `cond` is true
      (context, event) => {
        // some other action
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    actions: [
      log('fall-through action'),
      // selected when "cond1", "cond2", and "cond3" are false
    ],
  },
]);
```

This is analogous to the SCXML `<if>`, `<elseif>`, and `<else>` elements: www.w3.org/TR/scxml/#if

## Rules of built-in actions

Built-in actions are _pure functions_. Pure functions don’t execute anything themselves but instead return instructions that tells XState what to do.

For example, the assign function returns an object containing `type: 'xstate.assign'` and an `assigner` function.

```ts
import { assign } from 'xstate';

const assignResult = assign((context, event) => ({
  newValue: true,
}));

assignResult.type; // 'xstate.assign'
assignResult.assigner; // (context, event) => ({ newValue: true })
```

The instruction set above is interpreted by XState, which executes the code. The result of `assign` must be passed directly to `actions`, `entry` or `exit`.

For example, the following code won’t work correctly because the result of the `assign` isn’t being passed into `assignToContext`.

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...config
  },
  {
    actions: {
      // highlight-start
      assignToContext: (context, event) => {
        // 🚫 This won’t work!
        // The result of the assign isn’t being passed
        // into assignToContext
        assign({
          message: 'Hello!',
          // highlight-end
        });
      },
    },
  },
);
```

The following example works correctly because the result of the `assign` is passed into `assignToContext`:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...config
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      assignToContext: assign((context) => ({
        message: 'Hello!',
        // highlight-end
      })),
    },
  },
);
```

## Summary

`send` can be used to send events back to your machine. `pure` can be used to dynamically return different actions. Built-in actions must be passed directly to the machine or returned from `pure`.

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actions/built-in-actions.mdx, after:

---
title: Built-in actions
description: 'Along with the assign action, XState has several other built-in actions which can do different things in a state machine.'
---

# Built-in actions

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about XState v5’s built-in actions](/docs/actions#assign-action).

:::

Along with the [`assign`](context.mdx#assign-action) action, XState has several other built-in actions which can do different things in a state machine. We’ll introduce a couple of built-in actions for now and learn about the others later.

## Send action


XState’s built-in `send` action is useful for when statecharts need to send events back to themselves.

When the send action is executed, it sends an event back to the machine _as if it were from an external source_.

This pattern can help compose different flows together. In the example below, the user can either press the `copy` button or press `ctrl + c` to fire a `COPY` event to the machine. Using the `send` action to fire the same event from both actions reduces duplication.

```ts
import { createMachine, send } from 'xstate';

const keyboardShortcutMachine = createMachine({
  on: {
    PRESS_COPY_BUTTON: {
      actions: send({ type: 'COPY' }),
    },
    PRESS_CTRL_C: {
      actions: send({ type: 'COPY' }),
    },
    COPY: {
      actions: 'copyToClipboard',
    },
  },
});
```

You can also dynamically specify the event to send by passing a function to `send`:

```ts
send((context, event) => {
  return {
    type: 'SOME_EVENT',
  };
});
```

### Sending events to actors

With the `sendTo` action, events can be sent to actors:

```ts
import { actions, AnyActorRef, assign, createMachine, spawn } from 'xstate';
const { sendTo } = actions;

const machine = createMachine({
  schema: { context: {} as { someRef: AnyActorRef } },
  states: {
    active: {
      entry: assign({
        someRef: () => spawn(someMachine),
      }),
      on: {
        // highlight-start
        SOME_EVENT: {
          actions: (context) => sendTo(context.someRef, { type: 'PING' }),
        },
        // highlight-end
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Raise action

The `raise` action creator queues an event to the statechart, in the internal event queue.
This means the event is sent immediately on the current “step” of the interpreter.

```ts
import { createMachine, actions } from 'xstate';
const { raise } = actions;

// Demonstrate `raise` action
const raiseActionDemo = createMachine({
  id: 'Raise action demo',
  initial: 'entry',
  states: {
    entry: {
      on: {
        STEP: {
          target: 'middle',
        },
        RAISE: {
          target: 'middle',

          // highlight-start
          // immediately invoke the NEXT event in 'middle'
          actions: raise('NEXT'),
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    middle: {
      on: {
        NEXT: 'last',
      },
    },
    last: {
      on: {
        RESET: 'entry',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

Click on both `STEP` and `RAISE` events in the [visualizer](https://stately.ai/viz?gist=04bff4f2e4c5b4fa7f346dcd7fc21627) to see the difference.

## Pure action

The `pure` action is useful when you need to run a dynamic number of actions depending on the current machine’s state.

`pure` lets you pass a function to the machine, which calculates the type and number of actions to be executed.

In the example below, we check `context` to find which actions the machine should run.

```ts
import { actions, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const { pure } = actions;

createMachine({
  context: {
    runBothActions: false,
  },
  entry: pure((context) => {
    if (context.runBothActions) {
      // You can return an array of actions
      return ['action1', 'action2'];
    }
    // Or a single action
    return 'action1';
  }),
});
```

## Log action

The `log` action creator is a declarative way of logging anything related to the current state `context` and/or `event`. |

```ts
import { createMachine, actions } from 'xstate';
const { log } = actions;

const loggingMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'logging',
  context: { count: 42 },
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    start: {
      // highlight-end
      entry: log('started!'),
      on: {
        FINISH: {
          target: 'end',
          // highlight-start
          actions: log(
            (context, event) => `count: ${context.count}, event: ${event.type}`,

            'Finish label',
          ),
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    end: {},
  },
});

const endState = loggingMachine.transition('start', 'FINISH');
// highlight-start
endState.actions;
// the endState.actions array will now contain our log action:
// [
//   {
//     type: 'xstate.log',
//     label: 'Finish label',
//     expr: (context, event) => ...
//   }
// ]

// The interpreter would log the action's evaluated expression
// based on the current state context and event.
// highlight-end
```

Without any arguments, `log` is an action that logs an object with `context` and `event` properties, containing the current context and triggering event, respectively.

## Choose action

The `choose` action creator creates an action that specifies which actions should be executed based on some conditions.

:::danger
Do not use the `choose` action creator to execute actions that can otherwise be represented as non-conditional actions executed in certain states/transitions via `entry`, `exit`, or `actions`.
:::

```ts
import { actions } from 'xstate';
const { choose, log } = actions;

const maybeDoThese = choose([
  {
    cond: 'cond1',
    actions: [
      // selected when "cond1" is true
      log('cond1 chosen!'),
    ],
  },
  {
    cond: 'cond2',
    actions: [
      // selected when "cond1" is false and "cond2" is true
      log((context, event) => {
        /* ... */
      }),
      log('another action'),
    ],
  },
  {
    cond: (context, event) => {
      // some condition
      return false;
    },
    actions: [
      // selected when "cond1" and "cond2" are false and the inline `cond` is true
      (context, event) => {
        // some other action
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    actions: [
      log('fall-through action'),
      // selected when "cond1", "cond2", and "cond3" are false
    ],
  },
]);
```

This is analogous to the SCXML `<if>`, `<elseif>`, and `<else>` elements: www.w3.org/TR/scxml/#if

## Rules of built-in actions

Built-in actions are _pure functions_. Pure functions don’t execute anything themselves but instead return instructions that tells XState what to do.

For example, the assign function returns an object containing `type: 'xstate.assign'` and an `assigner` function.

```ts
import { assign } from 'xstate';

const assignResult = assign((context, event) => ({
  newValue: true,
}));

assignResult.type; // 'xstate.assign'
assignResult.assigner; // (context, event) => ({ newValue: true })
```

The instruction set above is interpreted by XState, which executes the code. The result of `assign` must be passed directly to `actions`, `entry` or `exit`.

For example, the following code won’t work correctly because the result of the `assign` isn’t being passed into `assignToContext`.

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...config
  },
  {
    actions: {
      // highlight-start
      assignToContext: (context, event) => {
        // 🚫 This won’t work!
        // The result of the assign isn’t being passed
        // into assignToContext
        assign({
          message: 'Hello!',
          // highlight-end
        });
      },
    },
  },
);
```

The following example works correctly because the result of the `assign` is passed into `assignToContext`:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...config
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      assignToContext: assign((context) => ({
        message: 'Hello!',
        // highlight-end
      })),
    },
  },
);
```

## Summary

`send` can be used to send events back to your machine. `pure` can be used to dynamically return different actions. Built-in actions must be passed directly to the machine or returned from `pure`.
