versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actions/context.mdx, before:

---
title: Context
description: 'States are used for handling your apps states which you know about in advance. Context is a data store that you can use to store any arbitrary values.'
---

# Context

<!-- deps: ["states", "transitions-and-events", "actions"] -->

Statecharts represent their finite state using `states` but can also handle states which are _not_ finite. These states might be:

- Counters, which can be incremented as many times as required.
- Text inputs, where the user might enter any value.

This “infinite” state can be stored in a statechart’s **context**, a data store that can be updated only by the statechart itself.

You can pass a machine its context using the `context` property:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  context: {
    count: 0,
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

Next, we’ll see how to update the context using the assign action.

## Assign action

<!-- deps: ["context", "actions", "self-transitions"] -->

Assigning new values to the context in XState is done through the `assign` action and is the only way to change a machine’s context. **Never mutate a machine’s `context` externally**. Every context change should happen explicitly due to an event.

The `assign` action takes the context _assigner_, representing how values should be assigned in the current context. The _assigner_ can be an object:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // adding a schema for the events will make them typesafe
    schema: {
      events: {} as { type: 'INCREMENT'; value: number; time: Date },
    },
    context: {
      count: 0,
      updatedAt: new Date(),
      message: 'Hello World',
    },
    on: {
      INCREMENT: {
        actions: 'assignToContext',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      // highlight-start
      assignToContext: assign({
        // increment the current count by the event value
        count: (context, event) => context.count + event.value,

        /*
         * you can update multiple properties at once
         * we name the context parameter `_`,
         * to indicate that we don’t use it
         */
        updatedAt: (_, event) => event.time,

        /*
         * to keep TypeScript happy,
         * update using a function with the context parameter
         * again we use the name `_` to indicate that the
         * parameter is unused
         */
        message: (_) => 'Count changed',
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
);
```

Or the _assigner_ can be a function that returns the updated state:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      count: 0,
      message: '',
    },
    on: {
      INCREMENT: {
        actions: 'assignToContext',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      assignToContext: assign((context) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + 1,

          // assign static value to the message (no function needed)
          message: 'Count changed',
        };
      }),
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

You can pass several `assign` actions in an array and they’ll be executed sequentially:

```js
// ...
  actions: [
    assign({ count: 3 }),
    // context.count is now 3

    assign({ count: context => context.count * 2 })
    // context.count is now 6
  ],
// ...
```

## Using context in actions

<!-- deps: ["actions", "context"] -->

When XState fires an action, the action receives several arguments. The first argument is the current `context` of the machine. The second argument is the most recent `event` sent to the machine.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      count: 0,
    },
    on: {
      LOG_COUNT: {
        actions: 'logCountToConsole',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      logCountToConsole: (context, event) => {
        console.log(`Count is ${context.count}`);

        console.log(event.type); // Logs 'LOG_COUNT'
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

:::typescript TypeScript

<!-- deps: [context, assign-action] -->

## TypeScript

In TypeScript, you can strongly type your context by passing a type to the `schema` property, which means that wherever you access the context, whether inside actions or when running your machine, the context will be strongly typed.

```ts
const lightMachine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as { value: number },
  },
});
```

:::

## Summary

`States` are used for handling your apps states which you know about in advance. `Context` is a data store that you can use to store any arbitrary values. The `assign` action can be used to assign values to the context, and the context can be used in any action you call.

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actions/context.mdx, after:

---
title: Context
description: 'States are used for handling your apps states which you know about in advance. Context is a data store that you can use to store any arbitrary values.'
---

# Context

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about context in XState V5](/docs/context).

:::

Statecharts represent their finite state using `states` but can also handle states which are _not_ finite. These states might be:

- Counters, which can be incremented as many times as required.
- Text inputs, where the user might enter any value.

This “infinite” state can be stored in a statechart’s **context**, a data store that can be updated only by the statechart itself.

You can pass a machine its context using the `context` property:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  context: {
    count: 0,
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

Next, we’ll see how to update the context using the assign action.

## Assign action

Assigning new values to the context in XState is done through the `assign` action and is the only way to change a machine’s context. **Never mutate a machine’s `context` externally**. Every context change should happen explicitly due to an event.

The `assign` action takes the context _assigner_, representing how values should be assigned in the current context. The _assigner_ can be an object:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // adding a schema for the events will make them typesafe
    schema: {
      events: {} as { type: 'INCREMENT'; value: number; time: Date },
    },
    context: {
      count: 0,
      updatedAt: new Date(),
      message: 'Hello World',
    },
    on: {
      INCREMENT: {
        actions: 'assignToContext',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      // highlight-start
      assignToContext: assign({
        // increment the current count by the event value
        count: (context, event) => context.count + event.value,

        /*
         * you can update multiple properties at once
         * we name the context parameter `_`,
         * to indicate that we don’t use it
         */
        updatedAt: (_, event) => event.time,

        /*
         * to keep TypeScript happy,
         * update using a function with the context parameter
         * again we use the name `_` to indicate that the
         * parameter is unused
         */
        message: (_) => 'Count changed',
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
);
```

Or the _assigner_ can be a function that returns the updated state:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      count: 0,
      message: '',
    },
    on: {
      INCREMENT: {
        actions: 'assignToContext',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      assignToContext: assign((context) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + 1,

          // assign static value to the message (no function needed)
          message: 'Count changed',
        };
      }),
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

You can pass several `assign` actions in an array and they’ll be executed sequentially:

```js
// ...
  actions: [
    assign({ count: 3 }),
    // context.count is now 3

    assign({ count: context => context.count * 2 })
    // context.count is now 6
  ],
// ...
```

## Using context in actions

When XState fires an action, the action receives several arguments. The first argument is the current `context` of the machine. The second argument is the most recent `event` sent to the machine.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      count: 0,
    },
    on: {
      LOG_COUNT: {
        actions: 'logCountToConsole',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      logCountToConsole: (context, event) => {
        console.log(`Count is ${context.count}`);

        console.log(event.type); // Logs 'LOG_COUNT'
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

:::typescript TypeScript

## TypeScript

In TypeScript, you can strongly type your context by passing a type to the `schema` property, which means that wherever you access the context, whether inside actions or when running your machine, the context will be strongly typed.

```ts
const lightMachine = createMachine({
  schema: {
    context: {} as { value: number },
  },
});
```

:::

## Summary

`States` are used for handling your apps states which you know about in advance. `Context` is a data store that you can use to store any arbitrary values. The `assign` action can be used to assign values to the context, and the context can be used in any action you call.
