versioned_docs/version-4/states/final-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Final states
description: 'When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up.'
---

When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. The box with a surrounding border icon represents the final state.

:::video

Watch our [“What are final states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqW8Gz4NYDc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=7) (55s).

:::

A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

In the video player below, *Stopped* is the final child state in the *Opened* state. When the video player is *Stopped*, the video player moves to its *Closed* state.

<p>
  <EmbedMachine
    name="Video player"
    embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=c6f8ca35-25e3-4fc6-b4fe-c9994715852e"
  />
</p>

## Make a state a final state

First, select the state you want to set as the final state.

### On the canvas

1. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
2. From the **Type** options, choose **Final**.

### Using the state Details panel

1. Select the state you want to set as the final state.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. From the type option, choose **Final**.

To set the state back as a normal state, follow the same steps and select the **Normal** type option.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use final states in XState?

Find out [more about final states in XState](/xstate/states/final-states.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/states/final-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Final states
description: 'When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about final states in XState v5](/docs/final-states).

:::

When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. The box with a surrounding border icon represents the final state.

:::video

Watch our [“What are final states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqW8Gz4NYDc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=7) (55s).

:::

A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

In the video player below, *Stopped* is the final child state in the *Opened* state. When the video player is *Stopped*, the video player moves to its *Closed* state.

<p>
  <EmbedMachine
    name="Video player"
    embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=c6f8ca35-25e3-4fc6-b4fe-c9994715852e"
  />
</p>

## Make a state a final state

First, select the state you want to set as the final state.

### On the canvas

1. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
2. From the **Type** options, choose **Final**.

### Using the state Details panel

1. Select the state you want to set as the final state.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. From the type option, choose **Final**.

To set the state back as a normal state, follow the same steps and select the **Normal** type option.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use final states in XState?

Find out [more about final states in XState](/xstate/states/final-states.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
