versioned_docs/version-4/states/initial-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Initial states
description: 'When a state machine starts, it enters the initial state first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state. Parent states also have initial states.'
---

When a state machine starts, it enters the **initial state** first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state; if there were multiple initial states, the machine wouldn’t know where to start!

:::video

Watch our [“What are initial states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=goCpmgyrjL0&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=3) (1m17s).

:::

In our video player, paused is the initial state because the video player is paused by default and requires user interaction to start playing.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="State machine with an initial state of Paused, transitioning through a Play event to the Playing state. From the Playing state back to the Paused state is a Pause event."
    sources={{
      light:
        'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/3ebc8874-2294-480b-a06e-74845337cd8d.light.png',
      dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/3ebc8874-2294-480b-a06e-74845337cd8d.dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=3ebc8874-2294-480b-a06e-74845337cd8d).

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, the filled circle with an arrow icon represents the initial state.

:::

## Change the initial state

Each new machine or parent state will set the first new state as its initial state by default.

### On the canvas

1. Select the state you wish to make the new initial state.
2. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Mark as initial state** from the edit menu.

### Using the state Details panel

1. Select the parent state or parent machine.
2. Open the state <Info size={18}/> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose the desired initial state from the **Initial state** dropdown menu.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use initial states in XState?

Find out [more about initial states in XState](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart.mdx#initial-state) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/states/initial-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Initial states
description: 'When a state machine starts, it enters the initial state first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state. Parent states also have initial states.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about initial states in XState v5](/docs/initial-states).

:::

When a state machine starts, it enters the **initial state** first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state; if there were multiple initial states, the machine wouldn’t know where to start!

:::video

Watch our [“What are initial states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=goCpmgyrjL0&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=3) (1m17s).

:::

In our video player, paused is the initial state because the video player is paused by default and requires user interaction to start playing.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="State machine with an initial state of Paused, transitioning through a Play event to the Playing state. From the Playing state back to the Paused state is a Pause event."
    sources={{
      light:
        'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/3ebc8874-2294-480b-a06e-74845337cd8d.light.png',
      dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/3ebc8874-2294-480b-a06e-74845337cd8d.dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=3ebc8874-2294-480b-a06e-74845337cd8d).

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, the filled circle with an arrow icon represents the initial state.

:::

## Change the initial state

Each new machine or parent state will set the first new state as its initial state by default.

### On the canvas

1. Select the state you wish to make the new initial state.
2. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Mark as initial state** from the edit menu.

### Using the state Details panel

1. Select the parent state or parent machine.
2. Open the state <Info size={18}/> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose the desired initial state from the **Initial state** dropdown menu.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use initial states in XState?

Find out [more about initial states in XState](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart.mdx#initial-state) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
