versioned_docs/version-4/states/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: States
description: 'A state describes a state machine’s status or mode, which could be as simple as Paused and Playing. A state machine can only be in one state at a time.'
---

A state describes the machine’s status or mode, which could be as simple as *Paused* and *Playing*. A state machine can only be in one state at a time.

:::video

Watch our [“What are states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z-6yhmSWUcc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=2) (53s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=741f69fd-7f01-4932-9407-6871e225bb6d"
/>

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, the rounded rectangle boxes are states. The **!** warning icon in the machine above indicates an unreachable state. The state is unreachable because it isn’t connected to the [initial state](/states/initial-states.mdx) by a [transition](/transitions-and-events/intro.mdx).

:::

These states are “finite”; the machine can only move through the states you’ve pre-defined.

## Create a state

:::tip

The fastest way to create a new state is by double-clicking in any empty space on the canvas.

:::

### Create a new target state

Each transition has a source state and a target state. To create a new target state from a source state:

1. Select the source state.
2. Press or drag from one of the <Plus size={18} /> handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.

[Read more about transitioning between source and target states](/transitions-and-events/intro.mdx#using-transitions-and-events-in-stately-studio).

### Create a new child state

[How to create child and parent states](parent-states.mdx).

## Delete a state

First, select the state you want to delete.

### Using the context menu

1. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot icon button to open the Edit menu.
2. Choose **Delete** to delete the selected state.

### Using backspace

Use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key to delete the selected state.
:::xstate

## Looking for how to use states in XState?

Find out [more about states in XState](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart.mdx#states) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/states/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: States
description: 'A state describes a state machine’s status or mode, which could be as simple as Paused and Playing. A state machine can only be in one state at a time.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about states in XState v5](/docs/states).

:::

A state describes the machine’s status or mode, which could be as simple as *Paused* and *Playing*. A state machine can only be in one state at a time.

:::video

Watch our [“What are states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z-6yhmSWUcc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=2) (53s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=741f69fd-7f01-4932-9407-6871e225bb6d"
/>

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, the rounded rectangle boxes are states. The **!** warning icon in the machine above indicates an unreachable state. The state is unreachable because it isn’t connected to the [initial state](/states/initial-states.mdx) by a [transition](/transitions-and-events/intro.mdx).

:::

These states are “finite”; the machine can only move through the states you’ve pre-defined.

## Create a state

:::tip

The fastest way to create a new state is by double-clicking in any empty space on the canvas.

:::

### Create a new target state

Each transition has a source state and a target state. To create a new target state from a source state:

1. Select the source state.
2. Press or drag from one of the <Plus size={18} /> handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.

[Read more about transitioning between source and target states](/transitions-and-events/intro.mdx#using-transitions-and-events-in-stately-studio).

### Create a new child state

[How to create child and parent states](parent-states.mdx).

## Delete a state

First, select the state you want to delete.

### Using the context menu

1. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot icon button to open the Edit menu.
2. Choose **Delete** to delete the selected state.

### Using backspace

Use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key to delete the selected state.
:::xstate

## Looking for how to use states in XState?

Find out [more about states in XState](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart.mdx#states) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
