versioned_docs/version-4/states/parallel-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Parallel states
description: 'In statecharts, a parallel state is a state separated into multiple regions of child states, where each region is active simultaneously.'
---

A parallel state is a state separated into multiple regions of child states, where each region is active simultaneously.

A dashed line borders each region.

:::video

Watch our [“What are parallel states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CWwgT1TbI4c&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=6) (54s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=733de338-26cb-40a5-a0b5-b76bfc0405c3"
/>

In the video player machine above, the video and audio states are active at the same time, which means the following combinations of states can happen simultaneously:

- video playing, audio muted
- video playing, audio unmuted
- video stopped, audio muted
- video stopped, audio unmuted

## Make a state a parallel state

First, select the parent state you want to set as a parallel state. Then…

### On the canvas

1. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
2. From the **Type** options, choose **Parallel**.

### Using the state Details panel

1. Select the parent state you want to make a parallel state.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. From the type option, choose **Parallel**.

To set the state back as a normal state, follow the same steps and select the **Normal** type option.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use parallel states in XState?

Find out [more about parallel states in XState](/xstate/states/parallel-states.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/states/parallel-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Parallel states
description: 'In statecharts, a parallel state is a state separated into multiple regions of child states, where each region is active simultaneously.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about parallel states in XState v5](/docs/parallel-states).

:::

A parallel state is a state separated into multiple regions of child states, where each region is active simultaneously.

A dashed line borders each region.

:::video

Watch our [“What are parallel states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CWwgT1TbI4c&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=6) (54s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=733de338-26cb-40a5-a0b5-b76bfc0405c3"
/>

In the video player machine above, the video and audio states are active at the same time, which means the following combinations of states can happen simultaneously:

- video playing, audio muted
- video playing, audio unmuted
- video stopped, audio muted
- video stopped, audio unmuted

## Make a state a parallel state

First, select the parent state you want to set as a parallel state. Then…

### On the canvas

1. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
2. From the **Type** options, choose **Parallel**.

### Using the state Details panel

1. Select the parent state you want to make a parallel state.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. From the type option, choose **Parallel**.

To set the state back as a normal state, follow the same steps and select the **Normal** type option.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use parallel states in XState?

Find out [more about parallel states in XState](/xstate/states/parallel-states.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
