versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/cheatsheet.mdx, before:

---
title: Actor cheatsheet
description: 'Get working quickly with actors using our quick reference XState cheatsheet, including spawning, sending, and receiving.'
---

Get working quickly with actors using our quick reference cheatsheet.

## Import `spawn` to spawn actors

Import `spawn` to spawn actors:

```js
import { spawn } from 'xstate';
```

## Spawn actors in `assign` action creators

Spawn actors in `assign` action creators:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: assign({
    someRef: (context, event) => spawn(someMachine),
  });
}
// ...
```

## Spawn different types of actors

Spawn different types of actors:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: assign({
    // From a promise
    promiseRef: (context, event) =>
      spawn(
        new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
          // ...
        }),
        'my-promise',
      ),

    // From a callback
    callbackRef: (context, event) =>
      spawn((callback, receive) => {
        // send to parent
        callback('SOME_EVENT');

        // receive from parent
        receive((event) => {
          // handle event
        });

        // disposal
        return () => {
          /* do cleanup here */
        };
      }),

    // From an observable
    observableRef: (context, event) => spawn(someEvent$),

    // From a machine
    machineRef: (context, event) =>
      spawn(
        createMachine({
          // ...
        }),
      ),
  });
}
// ...
```

## Sync state with an actor

Sync state with an actor:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: assign({
    someRef: () => spawn(someMachine, { sync: true }),
  });
}
// ...
```

## Get a snapshot from an actor

Get a snapshot from an actor:

```js
service.onTransition((state) => {
  const { someRef } = state.context;

  someRef.getSnapshot();
  // => State { ... }
});
```

## Send event to actor with `send` action creator

Send an event to an actor with the `send` action creator:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: send(
    { type: 'SOME_EVENT' },
    {
      to: (context) => context.someRef,
    },
  );
}
// ...
```

## Send event with data to actor using a `send` expression

Send an event with data to an actor using the `send` expression:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: send((context, event) => ({ ...event, type: 'SOME_EVENT' }), {
    to: (context) => context.someRef,
  });
}
// ...
```

## Send event from actor to parent with `sendParent` action creator

Send an event from an actor to its parent with the `sendParent` action creator:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: sendParent({ type: 'ANOTHER_EVENT' });
}
// ...
```

## Send event with data from actor to parent using a `sendParent` expression

Send an event with data from an actor to its parent using the `sendParent` expression:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: sendParent((context, event) => ({
    ...context,
    type: 'ANOTHER_EVENT',
  }));
}
// ...
```

## Reference actors from `context`

Reference actors from `context`:

```js
someService.onTransition((state) => {
  const { someRef } = state.context;

  console.log(someRef);
  // => { id: ..., send: ... }
});
```

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/cheatsheet.mdx, after:

---
title: Actor cheatsheet
description: 'Get working quickly with actors using our quick reference XState cheatsheet, including spawning, sending, and receiving.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Check out our XState v5 actor cheatsheet](/docs/actors#cheatsheet).

:::


Get working quickly with actors using our quick reference cheatsheet.

## Import `spawn` to spawn actors

Import `spawn` to spawn actors:

```js
import { spawn } from 'xstate';
```

## Spawn actors in `assign` action creators

Spawn actors in `assign` action creators:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: assign({
    someRef: (context, event) => spawn(someMachine),
  });
}
// ...
```

## Spawn different types of actors

Spawn different types of actors:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: assign({
    // From a promise
    promiseRef: (context, event) =>
      spawn(
        new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
          // ...
        }),
        'my-promise',
      ),

    // From a callback
    callbackRef: (context, event) =>
      spawn((callback, receive) => {
        // send to parent
        callback('SOME_EVENT');

        // receive from parent
        receive((event) => {
          // handle event
        });

        // disposal
        return () => {
          /* do cleanup here */
        };
      }),

    // From an observable
    observableRef: (context, event) => spawn(someEvent$),

    // From a machine
    machineRef: (context, event) =>
      spawn(
        createMachine({
          // ...
        }),
      ),
  });
}
// ...
```

## Sync state with an actor

Sync state with an actor:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: assign({
    someRef: () => spawn(someMachine, { sync: true }),
  });
}
// ...
```

## Get a snapshot from an actor

Get a snapshot from an actor:

```js
service.onTransition((state) => {
  const { someRef } = state.context;

  someRef.getSnapshot();
  // => State { ... }
});
```

## Send event to actor with `send` action creator

Send an event to an actor with the `send` action creator:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: send(
    { type: 'SOME_EVENT' },
    {
      to: (context) => context.someRef,
    },
  );
}
// ...
```

## Send event with data to actor using a `send` expression

Send an event with data to an actor using the `send` expression:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: send((context, event) => ({ ...event, type: 'SOME_EVENT' }), {
    to: (context) => context.someRef,
  });
}
// ...
```

## Send event from actor to parent with `sendParent` action creator

Send an event from an actor to its parent with the `sendParent` action creator:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: sendParent({ type: 'ANOTHER_EVENT' });
}
// ...
```

## Send event with data from actor to parent using a `sendParent` expression

Send an event with data from an actor to its parent using the `sendParent` expression:

```js
// ...
{
  actions: sendParent((context, event) => ({
    ...context,
    type: 'ANOTHER_EVENT',
  }));
}
// ...
```

## Reference actors from `context`

Reference actors from `context`:

```js
someService.onTransition((state) => {
  const { someRef } = state.context;

  console.log(someRef);
  // => { id: ..., send: ... }
});
```
