versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: Actors
description: 'When you run a statechart, it becomes an actor, a running process that can receive events. Often, you’ll need your actor to run other actors.'
---

# Actors

When you run a statechart, it becomes an _actor_, a running process that can receive events. Often, you’ll need your actor to run _other actors_; spawning new statecharts, waiting for promises, or subscribing to observables.

We use the `invoke` attribute on a state to _invoke_ an actor in our machine. You can invoke an actor on any state, including the root node.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: 'someActor',
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      /**
       * The actor is defined here
       */
      someActor: async () => {},
    },
  },
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in beta. [Check out XState v5 Beta on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-beta.13).

:::

You can also run several invocations at the same time by specifying `invoke` as an array:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: [
      {
        src: 'someActor',
      },
      {
        src: 'someOtherActor',
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      someActor: async () => {},
      someOtherActor: async () => {},
    },
  },
);
```

Running several invocations simultaneously is useful when you want several sub-processes running on the same state.

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: Actors
description: 'When you run a statechart, it becomes an actor, a running process that can receive events. Often, you’ll need your actor to run other actors.'
---

# Actors

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about actors in XState V5](/docs/actors).

:::

When you run a statechart, it becomes an _actor_, a running process that can receive events. Often, you’ll need your actor to run _other actors_; spawning new statecharts, waiting for promises, or subscribing to observables.

We use the `invoke` attribute on a state to _invoke_ an actor in our machine. You can invoke an actor on any state, including the root node.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: 'someActor',
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      /**
       * The actor is defined here
       */
      someActor: async () => {},
    },
  },
);
```

You can also run several invocations at the same time by specifying `invoke` as an array:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: [
      {
        src: 'someActor',
      },
      {
        src: 'someOtherActor',
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      someActor: async () => {},
      someOtherActor: async () => {},
    },
  },
);
```

Running several invocations simultaneously is useful when you want several sub-processes running on the same state.
