versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/machines.mdx, before:

---
title: Machines
description: 'Machine actors enable you to create machines that can act as reusable modules across your application. You can pass a machine directly to the invoke src.'
---

Callback actors are one way to start invoking long-lived actors and are useful for simple to intermediate cases. But sometimes, you’ll want to use all the power of a statechart.

_Machine actors_ are valuable for such use cases. You can pass a machine directly to the `invoke` `src` property to invoke the machine in that state.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: childMachine,
  },
});
```

Just like with callback actors, the child machine is stopped if the state where it’s invoked is exited.

Machine actors enable you to create machines that can act as reusable modules across your application.

## sendParent

<!-- deps: ["actions", "machine-actors"] -->

Child machines can communicate to the parent that invoked them via the `sendParent` action.

```ts
import { createMachine, sendParent } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  after: {
    3000: {
      actions: sendParent({
        type: 'TIMER_DONE',
      }),
    },
  },
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      on: {
        TIMER_DONE: {
          target: 'complete',
        },
      },
      invoke: {
        src: childMachine,
      },
    },
    complete: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});
```

In the example above, the `parentMachine` invokes the `childMachine` in the `waiting` state. Three seconds after being started, the `childMachine` sends the `TIMER_DONE` event to its parent. The `TIMER_DONE` transition in the `parentMachine` puts the machine into the `complete` state.

### Only use sendParent on child machines

If the child machine doesn’t have a parent, for instance, if the machine is run with `interpret`, then `sendParent` will throw an error.

## onDone in child machines

<!-- deps: [machine-actors, final-states] -->

When a child machine reaches a final state, it reports that it’s done to its parent. The parent can listen for this event with the `invoke.onDone` property:

```ts
const childMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      after: {
        3000: {
          target: 'complete',
        },
      },
    },
    complete: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});

const parentMachine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: childMachine,
      onDone: {
        actions: 'logComplete',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logComplete: () => {
        console.log('Child machine complete!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

You can also send data along with this `onDone` event. This “done data” is specified on the final state’s `data` property:

```ts
const secretMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'wait',
  context: {
    secret: '42',
  },
  states: {
    wait: {
      after: {
        1000: { target: 'reveal' },
      },
    },
    reveal: {
      type: 'final',
      // highlight-start
      data: {
        secret: (context, event) => context.secret,
      },
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    revealedSecret: undefined,
  },
  invoke: {
    src: secretMachine,
    onDone: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign({
        revealedSecret: (context, event) => {
          // { type: 'done.invoke.<id>', data: { secret: '42' } }
          return event.data.secret;
        },
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/machines.mdx, after:

---
title: Machines
description: 'Machine actors enable you to create machines that can act as reusable modules across your application. You can pass a machine directly to the invoke src.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about actor logic in XState v5](/docs/actors).

:::

Callback actors are one way to start invoking long-lived actors and are useful for simple to intermediate cases. But sometimes, you’ll want to use all the power of a statechart.

_Machine actors_ are valuable for such use cases. You can pass a machine directly to the `invoke` `src` property to invoke the machine in that state.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: childMachine,
  },
});
```

Just like with callback actors, the child machine is stopped if the state where it’s invoked is exited.

Machine actors enable you to create machines that can act as reusable modules across your application.

## sendParent

<!-- deps: ["actions", "machine-actors"] -->

Child machines can communicate to the parent that invoked them via the `sendParent` action.

```ts
import { createMachine, sendParent } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  after: {
    3000: {
      actions: sendParent({
        type: 'TIMER_DONE',
      }),
    },
  },
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      on: {
        TIMER_DONE: {
          target: 'complete',
        },
      },
      invoke: {
        src: childMachine,
      },
    },
    complete: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});
```

In the example above, the `parentMachine` invokes the `childMachine` in the `waiting` state. Three seconds after being started, the `childMachine` sends the `TIMER_DONE` event to its parent. The `TIMER_DONE` transition in the `parentMachine` puts the machine into the `complete` state.

### Only use sendParent on child machines

If the child machine doesn’t have a parent, for instance, if the machine is run with `interpret`, then `sendParent` will throw an error.

## onDone in child machines

<!-- deps: [machine-actors, final-states] -->

When a child machine reaches a final state, it reports that it’s done to its parent. The parent can listen for this event with the `invoke.onDone` property:

```ts
const childMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      after: {
        3000: {
          target: 'complete',
        },
      },
    },
    complete: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});

const parentMachine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: childMachine,
      onDone: {
        actions: 'logComplete',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logComplete: () => {
        console.log('Child machine complete!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

You can also send data along with this `onDone` event. This “done data” is specified on the final state’s `data` property:

```ts
const secretMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'wait',
  context: {
    secret: '42',
  },
  states: {
    wait: {
      after: {
        1000: { target: 'reveal' },
      },
    },
    reveal: {
      type: 'final',
      // highlight-start
      data: {
        secret: (context, event) => context.secret,
      },
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    revealedSecret: undefined,
  },
  invoke: {
    src: secretMachine,
    onDone: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign({
        revealedSecret: (context, event) => {
          // { type: 'done.invoke.<id>', data: { secret: '42' } }
          return event.data.secret;
        },
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```
