versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/observables.mdx, before:

---
title: Observables
description: 'Observables are streams of values emitted over time. Observables can be invoked, sending events to the parent machine.'
---

# Observables

[Observables](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-observable) are streams of values emitted over time. They could be considered an array or collection whose values are emitted asynchronously instead of all at once. There are many implementations of observables in JavaScript; the most popular one is [RxJS](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs).

Observables can be invoked, sending events to the parent machine. An observable invocation is a function that takes `context` and `event` as arguments and returns an observable stream of events. The observable is unsubscribed when the state on which the observable is invoked is exited.

In the example below, the `intervalMachine` will receive the events from `interval(...)` mapped to event objects until the observable is “completed” when it’s done emitting values. If the `CANCEL` event happens, the observable will be disposed of as `.unsubscribe()` will be called internally.

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';
import { interval } from 'rxjs';
import { map, take } from 'rxjs/operators';

const intervalMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'counting',
  context: { myInterval: 1000 },
  states: {
    counting: {
      invoke: {
        src: (context, event) =>
          interval(context.myInterval).pipe(
            map((value) => ({ type: 'COUNT', value })),
            take(5),
          ),
        onDone: 'finished',
      },
      on: {
        COUNT: { actions: 'notifyCount' },
        CANCEL: { target: 'finished' },
      },
    },
    finished: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});
```

### Hot observables

You don’t necessarily need to create observables for every invocation. You could reference a “hot observable” instead:

```ts
import { fromEvent } from 'rxjs';
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const mouseMove$ = fromEvent(document.body, 'mousemove');

const mouseMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'mouse',
  // ...
  invoke: {
    src: (context, event) => mouseMove$,
  },
  on: {
    mousemove: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/observables.mdx, after:

---
title: Observables
description: 'Observables are streams of values emitted over time. Observables can be invoked, sending events to the parent machine.'
---

# Observables

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about observable logic in XState v5](/docs/actors#fromobservable).

:::

[Observables](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-observable) are streams of values emitted over time. They could be considered an array or collection whose values are emitted asynchronously instead of all at once. There are many implementations of observables in JavaScript; the most popular one is [RxJS](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs).

Observables can be invoked, sending events to the parent machine. An observable invocation is a function that takes `context` and `event` as arguments and returns an observable stream of events. The observable is unsubscribed when the state on which the observable is invoked is exited.

In the example below, the `intervalMachine` will receive the events from `interval(...)` mapped to event objects until the observable is “completed” when it’s done emitting values. If the `CANCEL` event happens, the observable will be disposed of as `.unsubscribe()` will be called internally.

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';
import { interval } from 'rxjs';
import { map, take } from 'rxjs/operators';

const intervalMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'counting',
  context: { myInterval: 1000 },
  states: {
    counting: {
      invoke: {
        src: (context, event) =>
          interval(context.myInterval).pipe(
            map((value) => ({ type: 'COUNT', value })),
            take(5),
          ),
        onDone: 'finished',
      },
      on: {
        COUNT: { actions: 'notifyCount' },
        CANCEL: { target: 'finished' },
      },
    },
    finished: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});
```

### Hot observables

You don’t necessarily need to create observables for every invocation. You could reference a “hot observable” instead:

```ts
import { fromEvent } from 'rxjs';
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const mouseMove$ = fromEvent(document.body, 'mousemove');

const mouseMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'mouse',
  // ...
  invoke: {
    src: (context, event) => mouseMove$,
  },
  on: {
    mousemove: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
});
```
