versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/parent-child-communication.mdx, before:

---
title: Parent to child communication
description: 'Invoked actors can send events to their parent using the sendParent and sendBack methods. Child actors can also receive events from the parent.'
---

We’ve learned that invoked actors can send events to their parent via the invoked machine’s `sendParent` action and the invoked callback’s `sendBack` method. Child actors can also _receive_ events from the parent, allowing for bidirectional communication.

You must give invoked actors a unique id with `invoke.id` to enable parent to child communication:

```ts
const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    // highlight-start
    id: 'child',
    // highlight-end
    src: childMachine,
  },
});
```

Once the invoked actor has an id, you can use that ID to send it events via the `send` event.

In the example below, we specify that we want to send the `HELLO_FROM_PARENT` event to the `child` invocation after 3 seconds. The child then logs a message to the console.

```ts
import { createMachine, send } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      HELLO_FROM_PARENT: {
        actions: 'logToConsole',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logToConsole: () => {
        console.log('Event received!');
      },
    },
  },
);

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    id: 'child',
    src: childMachine,
  },
  after: {
    3000: {
      actions: send(
        {
          type: 'HELLO_FROM_PARENT',
        },
        // highlight-start
        {
          to: 'child',
        },
        // highlight-end
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

## Receiving events in invoked callbacks

<!-- deps: ["callback-actors", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

Invoked callbacks can listen to events from the parent. To manage this, they receive an `onReceive` argument.

In the example below, the parent machine sends the child `ponger` actor a `PING` event. The child actor can listen for that event using `onReceive(listener)` and send a `PONG` event back to the parent in response.

```ts
import { createMachine, send } from 'xstate';

const pingPongMachine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'active',
    states: {
      active: {
        invoke: {
          id: 'ponger',
          src: 'pongActor',
        },
        entry: send({ type: 'PING' }, { to: 'ponger' }),
        on: {
          PONG: { target: 'done' },
        },
      },
      done: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      pongActor: () => (sendBack, onReceive) => {
        // Whenever parent sends 'PING',
        // send parent 'PONG' event
        onReceive((e) => {
          if (e.type === 'PING') {
            sendBack('PONG');
          }
        });
      },
    },
  },
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in beta. [Check out XState v5 Beta on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-beta.13).

:::

## forwardTo

<!-- deps: ["actions", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

You’ll often want to use the parent machine to “forward” events to the child machine. To handle this, XState provides a built-in `forwardTo` action:

```ts
import { createMachine, forwardTo } from 'xstate';

const alertMachine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      ALERT: {
        actions: 'soundTheAlarm',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      soundTheAlarm: () => {
        alert('Oh no!');
      },
    },
  },
);

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'parent',
  invoke: {
    id: 'alerter',
    src: alertMachine,
  },
  on: {
    ALERT: { actions: forwardTo('alerter') },
  },
});
```

## autoForward

<!-- deps: ["forward-to-action", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

If you want _all_ events sent to the parent to be forwarded to the child, you can specify `autoForward: true` on an `invoke`.

In the example below, _any_ event the machine receives will be sent on to the `eventHandler`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: 'eventHandler',
      autoForward: true,
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      eventHandler: () => (sendBack, onReceive) => {
        onReceive((event) => {
          // Handle the forwarded event here
        });
      },
    },
  },
);
```

## escalate

<!-- deps: ["actions", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

When a parent invokes a child machine, any errors that occur in the child machine will be handled _in the child_. You can use the `escalate` action to send that error to the parent for processing.

In the parent, you can listen for the `escalate` action via the `invoke.onError` transition.

In the example below, the child machine immediately escalates an error to its parent on `entry`. The parent machine then processes the error in an `onError` handler by logging it to the console.

```ts
import { createMachine, actions } from 'xstate';

const { escalate } = actions;

const childMachine = createMachine({
  entry: escalate({ message: 'This is some error' }),
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: childMachine,
    onError: {
      actions: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.data);
        // data: {
        //   message: 'This is some error'
        // }
      },
    },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/parent-child-communication.mdx, after:

---
title: Parent to child communication
description: 'Invoked actors can send events to their parent using the sendParent and sendBack methods. Child actors can also receive events from the parent.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about the `send-to` action in XState v5](/docs/actions#send-to-action).

:::

We’ve learned that invoked actors can send events to their parent via the invoked machine’s `sendParent` action and the invoked callback’s `sendBack` method. Child actors can also _receive_ events from the parent, allowing for bidirectional communication.

You must give invoked actors a unique id with `invoke.id` to enable parent to child communication:

```ts
const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    // highlight-start
    id: 'child',
    // highlight-end
    src: childMachine,
  },
});
```

Once the invoked actor has an id, you can use that ID to send it events via the `send` event.

In the example below, we specify that we want to send the `HELLO_FROM_PARENT` event to the `child` invocation after 3 seconds. The child then logs a message to the console.

```ts
import { createMachine, send } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      HELLO_FROM_PARENT: {
        actions: 'logToConsole',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logToConsole: () => {
        console.log('Event received!');
      },
    },
  },
);

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    id: 'child',
    src: childMachine,
  },
  after: {
    3000: {
      actions: send(
        {
          type: 'HELLO_FROM_PARENT',
        },
        // highlight-start
        {
          to: 'child',
        },
        // highlight-end
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

## Receiving events in invoked callbacks

<!-- deps: ["callback-actors", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

Invoked callbacks can listen to events from the parent. To manage this, they receive an `onReceive` argument.

In the example below, the parent machine sends the child `ponger` actor a `PING` event. The child actor can listen for that event using `onReceive(listener)` and send a `PONG` event back to the parent in response.

```ts
import { createMachine, send } from 'xstate';

const pingPongMachine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'active',
    states: {
      active: {
        invoke: {
          id: 'ponger',
          src: 'pongActor',
        },
        entry: send({ type: 'PING' }, { to: 'ponger' }),
        on: {
          PONG: { target: 'done' },
        },
      },
      done: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      pongActor: () => (sendBack, onReceive) => {
        // Whenever parent sends 'PING',
        // send parent 'PONG' event
        onReceive((e) => {
          if (e.type === 'PING') {
            sendBack('PONG');
          }
        });
      },
    },
  },
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in beta. [Check out XState v5 Beta on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-beta.13).

:::

## forwardTo

<!-- deps: ["actions", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

You’ll often want to use the parent machine to “forward” events to the child machine. To handle this, XState provides a built-in `forwardTo` action:

```ts
import { createMachine, forwardTo } from 'xstate';

const alertMachine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      ALERT: {
        actions: 'soundTheAlarm',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      soundTheAlarm: () => {
        alert('Oh no!');
      },
    },
  },
);

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'parent',
  invoke: {
    id: 'alerter',
    src: alertMachine,
  },
  on: {
    ALERT: { actions: forwardTo('alerter') },
  },
});
```

## autoForward

<!-- deps: ["forward-to-action", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

If you want _all_ events sent to the parent to be forwarded to the child, you can specify `autoForward: true` on an `invoke`.

In the example below, _any_ event the machine receives will be sent on to the `eventHandler`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: 'eventHandler',
      autoForward: true,
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      eventHandler: () => (sendBack, onReceive) => {
        onReceive((event) => {
          // Handle the forwarded event here
        });
      },
    },
  },
);
```

## escalate

<!-- deps: ["actions", "receiving-events-from-parent"] -->

When a parent invokes a child machine, any errors that occur in the child machine will be handled _in the child_. You can use the `escalate` action to send that error to the parent for processing.

In the parent, you can listen for the `escalate` action via the `invoke.onError` transition.

In the example below, the child machine immediately escalates an error to its parent on `entry`. The parent machine then processes the error in an `onError` handler by logging it to the console.

```ts
import { createMachine, actions } from 'xstate';

const { escalate } = actions;

const childMachine = createMachine({
  entry: escalate({ message: 'This is some error' }),
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: childMachine,
    onError: {
      actions: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.data);
        // data: {
        //   message: 'This is some error'
        // }
      },
    },
  },
});
```
