versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/spawn.mdx, before:

---
title: Spawning actors
description: 'You can use spawn to run actors. Actors created with spawn are spawning actors, and actors created with invoke are invoking actors.'
---

# Spawning actors

<!-- deps: ["assign-action", "machine-actors"] -->

Sometimes invoking actors may not be flexible enough for your needs. In such cases, you might want to:

- Invoke child machines that last across several states when machines invoked with `invoke` are tied to that state
- Invoke a dynamic number of actors

You can use a powerful tool called `spawn` to run these actors in these cases. Actors created with spawn are **spawning actors**, and actors created with invoke are **invoking actors**.

Spawning actors puts a reference to the machine in `context`, which means that you must always assign a spawned actor to context via `assign`:

```ts
import { createMachine, spawn, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    assign({
      childMachineRef: () => spawn(childMachine),
    }),
  ],
});
```

In the example above, the spawned actor can now be referenced on the `context` of the machine. You can spawn as many actors as you need:

```ts
import { createMachine, spawn, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    assign({
      childMachineRefs: () => [
        // highlight-start
        spawn(childMachine),
        spawn(childMachine),
        spawn(childMachine),
        // highlight-end
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Sending events to spawned machines

<!-- deps: ["spawning-machines"] -->

Events can be sent to spawned actors by passing a function to `send` or `forwardTo`:

```ts
send({ type: 'INC' }, { to: (context) => context.counterRef });

forwardTo((context) => context.counterRef);
```

<!-- TODO - are there any other API's which need to be mentioned here?-->

You can also forward _all_ events to the child by passing `autoForward` as an option to `spawn`:

```ts
import { spawn, createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({});

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: assign((context) => ({
    counterRef: spawn(childMachine, {
      autoForward: true,
    }),
  })),
});
```

Passing `autoForward` will ensure that every event sent to the `machine` also gets forwarded to `childMachine`.

## Stopping spawned actors

<!-- deps: [spawning-machines] -->

When you want to stop a spawned actor, you can either stop the parent machine, which will stop all child actors automatically, or stop the actor via the `stop` action.

```ts
const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

import { createMachine, spawn, assign, actions, ActorRefFrom } from 'xstate';
// highlight-start
const { stop } = actions;
// highlight-end

const parentMachine = createMachine(
  {
    /**
     * In TypeScript, you can use the ActorRefFrom helper
     * to type the machine
     */
    schema: {
      context: {} as {
        childMachineRef: ActorRefFrom<typeof childMachine>;
      },
    },
    entry: [
      assign({
        childMachineRef: () => spawn(childMachine),
      }),
    ],
    on: {
      // highlight-start
      STOP: {
        actions: 'stopMachine',
      },
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      stopMachine: stop((context) => context.childMachineRef),
    },
  },
);
```

## Spawning callbacks

<!-- deps: ["spawning-machines"] -->

Just like invoking callbacks, callbacks can be spawned as actors.

```ts
import { createMachine, assign, spawn } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: assign({
    counterRef: (context, event) =>
      // highlight-start
      spawn((sendBack, receive) => {
        // highlight-end
        // Run any code you want inside here

        return () => {
          // Any code inside here will be called when
          // you leave this state, or the machine is stopped
        };
      }),
  }),
});
```

Spawned callbacks behave exactly the same as invoked callbacks but with all the flexibility of `spawn`.

## Spawning observables

<!-- deps: [spawning-machines, "observable-actors"] -->

Just like invoking observables, observables can be spawned as actors:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign, spawn } from 'xstate';
import { interval } from 'rxjs';
import { map } from 'rxjs/operators';

const createCounterObservable = (ms: number) =>
  interval(ms).pipe(map((count) => ({ type: 'COUNT.UPDATE', count })));

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: { ms: 1000 },
    entry: assign({
      counterRef: ({ ms }) => spawn(createCounterObservable(ms)),
    }),
    on: {
      'COUNT.UPDATE': {
        actions: 'logCount',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logCount: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.count);
      },
    },
  },
);
```

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/actors/spawn.mdx, after:

---
title: Spawning actors
description: 'You can use spawn to run actors. Actors created with spawn are spawning actors, and actors created with invoke are invoking actors.'
---

# Spawning actors

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about spawning actors in XState v5](/docs/spawn).

:::


Sometimes invoking actors may not be flexible enough for your needs. In such cases, you might want to:

- Invoke child machines that last across several states when machines invoked with `invoke` are tied to that state
- Invoke a dynamic number of actors

You can use a powerful tool called `spawn` to run these actors in these cases. Actors created with spawn are **spawning actors**, and actors created with invoke are **invoking actors**.

Spawning actors puts a reference to the machine in `context`, which means that you must always assign a spawned actor to context via `assign`:

```ts
import { createMachine, spawn, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    assign({
      childMachineRef: () => spawn(childMachine),
    }),
  ],
});
```

In the example above, the spawned actor can now be referenced on the `context` of the machine. You can spawn as many actors as you need:

```ts
import { createMachine, spawn, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const parentMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    assign({
      childMachineRefs: () => [
        // highlight-start
        spawn(childMachine),
        spawn(childMachine),
        spawn(childMachine),
        // highlight-end
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Sending events to spawned machines

Events can be sent to spawned actors by passing a function to `send` or `forwardTo`:

```ts
send({ type: 'INC' }, { to: (context) => context.counterRef });

forwardTo((context) => context.counterRef);
```

You can also forward _all_ events to the child by passing `autoForward` as an option to `spawn`:

```ts
import { spawn, createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const childMachine = createMachine({});

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: assign((context) => ({
    counterRef: spawn(childMachine, {
      autoForward: true,
    }),
  })),
});
```

Passing `autoForward` will ensure that every event sent to the `machine` also gets forwarded to `childMachine`.

## Stopping spawned actors

When you want to stop a spawned actor, you can either stop the parent machine, which will stop all child actors automatically, or stop the actor via the `stop` action.

```ts
const childMachine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

import { createMachine, spawn, assign, actions, ActorRefFrom } from 'xstate';
// highlight-start
const { stop } = actions;
// highlight-end

const parentMachine = createMachine(
  {
    /**
     * In TypeScript, you can use the ActorRefFrom helper
     * to type the machine
     */
    schema: {
      context: {} as {
        childMachineRef: ActorRefFrom<typeof childMachine>;
      },
    },
    entry: [
      assign({
        childMachineRef: () => spawn(childMachine),
      }),
    ],
    on: {
      // highlight-start
      STOP: {
        actions: 'stopMachine',
      },
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      stopMachine: stop((context) => context.childMachineRef),
    },
  },
);
```

## Spawning callbacks

Just like invoking callbacks, callbacks can be spawned as actors.

```ts
import { createMachine, assign, spawn } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: assign({
    counterRef: (context, event) =>
      // highlight-start
      spawn((sendBack, receive) => {
        // highlight-end
        // Run any code you want inside here

        return () => {
          // Any code inside here will be called when
          // you leave this state, or the machine is stopped
        };
      }),
  }),
});
```

Spawned callbacks behave exactly the same as invoked callbacks but with all the flexibility of `spawn`.

## Spawning observables

Just like invoking observables, observables can be spawned as actors:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign, spawn } from 'xstate';
import { interval } from 'rxjs';
import { map } from 'rxjs/operators';

const createCounterObservable = (ms: number) =>
  interval(ms).pipe(map((count) => ({ type: 'COUNT.UPDATE', count })));

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: { ms: 1000 },
    entry: assign({
      counterRef: ({ ms }) => spawn(createCounterObservable(ms)),
    }),
    on: {
      'COUNT.UPDATE': {
        actions: 'logCount',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logCount: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.count);
      },
    },
  },
);
```
