versioned_docs/version-4/examples/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Request examples'
description: 'Examples are coming soon. If you have any examples you want us to make, please add a request or upvote an existing suggestion.'
---

**Find [examples for XState V5](/docs/examples) in the XState V5 section of these docs.**

If you have any examples you want us to make, please [add a request to our feedback board](https://feedback.stately.ai/examples) or upvote an existing suggestion.

## Simple fetch example

A simple fetch example built with:

- XState v5
- Parcel

- [Simple fetch example on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/fetch)
- [Simple fetch example on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/fetch)

## 7GUIs counter (React)

An implementation of the [7GUIs counter](https://eugenkiss.github.io/7guis/tasks/#counter) built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [7GUIs counter (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/7guis-counter-react)
- [7GUIs counter (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-7guis-counter)

## 7GUIs temperature (React)

This is an implementation of the [7GUIs temperature converter](https://eugenkiss.github.io/7guis/tasks#temp) built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [7GUIs temperature (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/7guis-temperature-react)
- [7GUIs temperature (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-7guis-temperature)

## Simple list (React)

A React list built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Simple list (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/friends-list-react)
- [Simple list (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-list)

## Stopwatch

A simple stopwatch built with:

- XState v5
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Stopwatch on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/stopwatch)
- [Stopwatch on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/stopwatch)

## Tic-tac-toe game (React)

An implementation of tic-tac-toe built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Tic-tac-toe game (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/tic-tac-toe-react)
- [Tic-tac-toe game (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-tic-tac-toe)

## Tiles game (React)

A simple tiles game built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Tiles game (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/tiles)
- [Tiles game (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/tiles)

## TodoMVC (React)

An implementation of [TodoMVC](https://todomvc.com/) built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [TodoMVC (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/todomvc-react)
- [TodoMVC (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/todomvc-react)

## Toggle

A simple toggle built with:

- XState v5
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Toggle on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/toggle)
- [Toggle on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/toggle)

**More examples are coming soon**. If you have any examples you want us to make, please [add a request to our feedback board](https://feedback.stately.ai/examples) or upvote an existing suggestion.

If you have an example you want to share, [contribute your example to the XState repository](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples#contributing-an-example).

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/examples/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Request examples'
description: 'Examples are coming soon. If you have any examples you want us to make, please add a request or upvote an existing suggestion.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Check out the examples for XState V5](/docs/examples).

:::

If you have any examples you want us to make, please [add a request to our feedback board](https://feedback.stately.ai/examples) or upvote an existing suggestion.

## Simple fetch example

A simple fetch example built with:

- XState v5
- Parcel

- [Simple fetch example on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/fetch)
- [Simple fetch example on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/fetch)

## 7GUIs counter (React)

An implementation of the [7GUIs counter](https://eugenkiss.github.io/7guis/tasks/#counter) built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [7GUIs counter (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/7guis-counter-react)
- [7GUIs counter (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-7guis-counter)

## 7GUIs temperature (React)

This is an implementation of the [7GUIs temperature converter](https://eugenkiss.github.io/7guis/tasks#temp) built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [7GUIs temperature (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/7guis-temperature-react)
- [7GUIs temperature (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-7guis-temperature)

## Simple list (React)

A React list built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Simple list (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/friends-list-react)
- [Simple list (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-list)

## Stopwatch

A simple stopwatch built with:

- XState v5
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Stopwatch on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/stopwatch)
- [Stopwatch on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/stopwatch)

## Tic-tac-toe game (React)

An implementation of tic-tac-toe built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Tic-tac-toe game (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/tic-tac-toe-react)
- [Tic-tac-toe game (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/react-tic-tac-toe)

## Tiles game (React)

A simple tiles game built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Tiles game (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/tiles)
- [Tiles game (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/tiles)

## TodoMVC (React)

An implementation of [TodoMVC](https://todomvc.com/) built with:

- XState v5
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [TodoMVC (React) on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/todomvc-react)
- [TodoMVC (React) on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/todomvc-react)

## Toggle

A simple toggle built with:

- XState v5
- TypeScript
- Vite

- [Toggle on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/toggle)
- [Toggle on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples/toggle)

**More examples are coming soon**. If you have any examples you want us to make, please [add a request to our feedback board](https://feedback.stately.ai/examples) or upvote an existing suggestion.

If you have an example you want to share, [contribute your example to the XState repository](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/examples#contributing-an-example).
