versioned_docs/version-4/tools/developer-tools.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Developer tools'
description: 'Find out more about the Stately XState CLI (Command Line Interface) and other dev tools available for Stately and XState.'
---

Find more about our [XState CLI (Command Line Interface)](#xstate-cli-command-line-interface) below. We plan to make extensions for more IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) in the future.

:::xstate

[Read about our XState VS Code extension on its own page](/tools/xstate-vscode-extension.mdx).

:::

## XState CLI (Command Line Interface)

The [@xstate/cli (Command Line Interface) package](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate-tools/tree/master/apps/cli) contains commands for running typegen. The package is small right now, but we plan to add more features.

### Installation

Run `npm install @xstate/cli`.

### Commands

#### `xstate typegen <files>`

Use the following command to run the typegen against a glob.

`xstate typegen "src/**/*.ts?(x)"`

Running typegen will scan every targeted file and generate a typegen file to accompany it. It will also import the typegen into your file, as described in [our typegen documentation](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx).

:::warning

Ensure you wrap your glob in quotes for correct execution. If you don’t wrap the glob in quotes, it will be interpreted as a list of files, not a glob, which will give unexpected results.

:::

#### Options

`xstate typegen "src/**/*.ts?(x)" --watch`

Runs the task on a watch, monitoring for changed files and running the typegen script against them.

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/tools/developer-tools.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Developer tools'
description: 'Find out more about the Stately XState CLI (Command Line Interface) and other dev tools available for Stately and XState.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about our developer tools for XState v5](/docs/developer-tools).

:::

Find more about our [XState CLI (Command Line Interface)](#xstate-cli-command-line-interface) below. We plan to make extensions for more IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) in the future.

:::xstate

[Read about our XState VS Code extension on its own page](/tools/xstate-vscode-extension.mdx).

:::

## XState CLI (Command Line Interface)

The [@xstate/cli (Command Line Interface) package](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate-tools/tree/master/apps/cli) contains commands for running typegen. The package is small right now, but we plan to add more features.

### Installation

Run `npm install @xstate/cli`.

### Commands

#### `xstate typegen <files>`

Use the following command to run the typegen against a glob.

`xstate typegen "src/**/*.ts?(x)"`

Running typegen will scan every targeted file and generate a typegen file to accompany it. It will also import the typegen into your file, as described in [our typegen documentation](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx).

:::warning

Ensure you wrap your glob in quotes for correct execution. If you don’t wrap the glob in quotes, it will be interpreted as a list of files, not a glob, which will give unexpected results.

:::

#### Options

`xstate typegen "src/**/*.ts?(x)" --watch`

Runs the task on a watch, monitoring for changed files and running the typegen script against them.
