docs/xstate/actions/actions.mdx, before:

---
title: Actions
---

<!-- deps: ['options-intro', 'options-api'] -->

## Side effects

You may have come across a type of function called a _[pure function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function)_. A function is ‘pure’ if it takes in an input, returns a predictable output, and does _nothing else_. Pure functions do not involve:

- Waiting a set amount of time
- Making an API call
- Logging things to the console

We can think of the processes above as [side effects](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)>) of our program running. The name gives them a negative medical connotation, but they’re incredibly important. Processes that don’t have side effects don’t talk to anything external, don’t worry about time, and don’t react to unexpected errors.

Statecharts give you a great deal of control over running side effects in your app. The first method is through actions.

## Actions

Actions are side effects which are:

- **Fire-and-forget**: Actions don’t talk back to the statechart.
- **Unlikely to fail**. Actions are unlikely to impact the system if they fail.
- Usually **synchronous**. For example, you don’t `await` actions.

Some examples of actions are:

- Logging something to the console
- Assigning a value to a variable
- Changing the attribute of a DOM node

You can fire an action upon entering or exiting a state by using the `entry` and `exit` attributes on that state.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'visiting',
    states: {
      visiting: {
        entry: 'sayHello',
        exit: 'sayGoodbye',
        on: {
          LEAVE: 'notVisiting',
        },
      },
      notVisiting: {},
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello');
      },
      sayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('Goodbye');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

You can also fire an action on a transition:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'toggledOn',
    states: {
      toggledOn: {
        on: {
          TOGGLE: {
            target: 'toggledOff',
            actions: 'sayToggled',
          },
        },
      },
      toggledOff: {
        on: {
          TOGGLE: {
            target: 'toggledOn',
            actions: 'sayToggled',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayToggled: () => {
        console.log('Toggled!');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

Anywhere you can use an action, you can also declare it as an array to express multiple actions.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['youSayGoodbye', 'iSayHello'],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      iSayHello: () => {
        console.log('Me: Hello');
      },
      youSayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('You: Goodbye');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

In the example above, `Me: Hello` will be logged to the console, followed by `You: Goodbye`.

## Actions on self-transitions

<!-- deps: ['actions', 'transitions-and-events'] -->

A self-transition is when an event happens, but the transition returns to the same state. The transition arrow exits and re-enters the same state.

A helpful way to describe a self-transition is “doing something, not going somewhere” in the process.

In a **dog begging** process, there would be a **begging** state with a **gets treat** event. And for the dogs who love their food, no matter how many times you go through the **gets treat** event, the dog returns to its **begging** state.

![](/self-transition.svg)

Self-transitions are helpful when you want to fire an action, but not leave your current state. You can use an action on the transition to fire it whenever that event is received.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'begging',
    states: {
      begging: {
        on: {
          'gets treat': {
            actions: 'makeHappySnufflingSound',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      makeHappySnufflingSound: () => {
        console.log('Snuffle snuffle snuffle');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

## Summary

You can run actions on `entry` to a state, `exit` from a state, or on a transition. Self-transitions are particularly useful if you want to run an action without leaving the state.

Next, we’ll look at using actions to store arbitrary values in your state machine via [context](/actions/context).

Commit message:

Tweak text to give more concise intro and add machine image

docs/xstate/actions/actions.mdx, after:

---
title: Actions
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

<!-- deps: ['options-intro', 'options-api'] -->

Statecharts give you a great deal of control over running side effects in your app. The first method is through actions.

## Side effects

You may have come across a type of function called a _[pure function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function)_. A function is ‘pure’ if it takes in an input, returns a predictable output, and does _nothing else_. Pure functions do not involve:

- Waiting a set amount of time
- Making an API call
- Logging things to the console

We can think of the processes above as [side effects](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)>) of our program running. The name gives them a negative medical connotation, but they’re incredibly important. Processes that don’t have side effects don’t talk to anything external, don’t worry about time, and don’t react to unexpected errors.

## Actions

Actions are side effects which are:

- **Fire-and-forget**: Actions don’t talk back to the statechart.
- **Unlikely to fail**. Actions are unlikely to impact the system if they fail.
- Usually **synchronous**. For example, you don’t `await` actions.

:::studio

[Learn more about how actions work in the Stately Studio](/actions-and-actors/entry-and-exit-actions/)

:::

Some examples of actions are:

- Logging something to the console
- Assigning a value to a variable
- Changing the attribute of a DOM node

You can fire an action upon entering or exiting a state by using the `entry` and `exit` attributes on that state.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'visiting',
    states: {
      visiting: {
        entry: 'sayHello',
        exit: 'sayGoodbye',
        on: {
          LEAVE: 'notVisiting',
        },
      },
      notVisiting: {},
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello');
      },
      sayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('Goodbye');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

You can also fire an action on a transition:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'toggledOn',
    states: {
      toggledOn: {
        on: {
          TOGGLE: {
            target: 'toggledOff',
            actions: 'sayToggled',
          },
        },
      },
      toggledOff: {
        on: {
          TOGGLE: {
            target: 'toggledOn',
            actions: 'sayToggled',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayToggled: () => {
        console.log('Toggled!');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

Anywhere you can use an action, you can also declare it as an array to express multiple actions.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['youSayGoodbye', 'iSayHello'],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      iSayHello: () => {
        console.log('Me: Hello');
      },
      youSayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('You: Goodbye');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

In the example above, `Me: Hello` will be logged to the console, followed by `You: Goodbye`.

## Actions on self-transitions

<!-- deps: ['actions', 'transitions-and-events'] -->

A self-transition is when an event happens, but the transition returns to the same state. The transition arrow exits and re-enters the same state.

A helpful way to describe a self-transition is “doing something, not going somewhere” in the process.

In a **dog begging** process, there would be a **begging** state with a **gets treat** event. And for the dogs who love their food, no matter how many times you go through the **gets treat** event, the dog returns to its **begging** state.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Dog begging machine with one begging state and a ‘gets treat’ transition which leaves and returns to the same state."
  sources={{
    light: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/933419cb-dd94-453c-a2b1-de2290c0a5a5.light.png',
    dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/933419cb-dd94-453c-a2b1-de2290c0a5a5.dark.png',
  }}
/>
</p>

Self-transitions are helpful when you want to fire an action, but not leave your current state. You can use an action on the transition to fire it whenever that event is received.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'begging',
    states: {
      begging: {
        on: {
          'gets treat': {
            actions: 'makeHappySnufflingSound',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      makeHappySnufflingSound: () => {
        console.log('Snuffle snuffle snuffle');
      },
    },
  }
);
```

## Summary

You can run actions on `entry` to a state, `exit` from a state, or on a transition. Self-transitions are particularly useful if you want to run an action without leaving the state.

Next, we’ll look at using actions to store arbitrary values in your state machine via [context](/actions/context).
