docs/running-machines/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: Running machines
---

# Running machines

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events", "states", "context", "options-intro"] -->

We’ve now covered configuring statecharts and setting up their states, transitions, and options.

Next, we need to learn how to _execute_ our machines in code. Depending on where you’re using XState, you’ll likely need to run machines differently. We’ll start with the VanillaJS approach for now.

## Interpret

The `interpret` interpreter provides us with a “running” and _interactive_ version of our machine.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

const service = interpret(machine).start();
```

In XState, we call that “running” machine a `service`. The most common way to interact with a service is to send it events:

<!-- TODO: maybe refer to this as an 'actor' instead? \-->

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      SAY_HELLO: {
        actions: 'sayHello',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

service.send({
  type: 'SAY_HELLO',
});

// Logs 'Hello!'
```

You can also subscribe to the service via `service.subscribe`:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      SAY_HELLO: {
        actions: 'sayHello',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

// ---cut---

// Fires whenever the state changes
const { unsubscribe } = service.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(
    // We’ll learn what goes inside here soon!
    state
  );
});
```

You can also stop the service by running `service.stop()` which cleans up the service and runs any relevant exit actions:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      SAY_HELLO: {
        actions: 'sayHello',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

// ---cut---

service.stop();
```

<!-- TODO - add reference section for interpret \-->

`interpret` can run _anywhere JavaScript runs_, which means you can run XState in the browser, Node, Electron, React Native… anywhere!

<!-- TODO - add URL below \-->

Check out the reference docs on the interpret API for a full deep dive into everything a `service` can do.

## State API

<!-- deps: ["states", "running-machines-intro", "actions", "context"] -->

When running your machine, you’ll want to query the machine to understand which state it’s in. When you run a machine using `interpret`, you can find the state as follows:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

// ---cut---

const service = interpret(machine).start();

const state = service.state;
```

You can also get an updated version when you subscribe to the state:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

const service = interpret(machine).start();

// ---cut---

service.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state);
});
```

This `State` class has a bunch of useful attributes and methods.

### Context

First, you can find the state’s context using `state.context`.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      count: 0,
    },
    on: {
      INCREMENT: {
        actions: 'incrementCount',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      incrementCount: assign((context) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + 1,
        };
      }),
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

service.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.count);
});

service.send({ type: 'INCREMENT' });
```

### `state.matches`

You can query which state the machine is in by running `state.matches()`. `state.matches()` returns a boolean depending on whether you’re in a matching state.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'toggledOff',
  states: {
    toggledOff: {
      on: {
        TOGGLE: 'toggledOn',
      },
    },
    toggledOn: {
      on: {
        TOGGLE: 'toggledOff',
      },
    },
  },
});

const service = interpret(machine).start();

service.subscribe((state) => {
  const isToggledOn = state.matches('toggledOn');

  console.log(isToggledOn); // true / false
  console.log(state.value); // 'toggledOn' / 'toggledOff'
});
```

You can also use `state.value` to check your machine’s state, but we recommend using `state.matches` because of how it works with hierarchical states. We’ll talk more about hierarchical states later. [Fast track to hierarchical states](/path-to/state.matches-in-hierarchical-states).

### Changed

You can check if a state was _changed_ by the most recently received event. The state was changed if:

1. There was a change in `state.value`. For example, moving from `toggledOn` to `toggledOff`.
2. A value in context was changed.

## Running machines as pure functions

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events","intro-to-state-api","actions"] -->

You can use `machine.transition` to run your machine as a pure function without executing any of its actions. `machine.transition` is a pure function that takes two arguments:

- `state`, the `State` to transition from
- `event`, the event that causes the transition

`machine.transition` returns a new `State` resulting from taking all the transitions enabled by the current state and event.

```js
const machine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const initialState = machine.initialState;

// determine next state based on current state and event
const yellowState = machine.transition(initialState, {
  type: 'TIMER',
});

console.log(yellowState.value);
// => 'yellow'
```

Commit message:

Use “parent and child” over “hierarchical” states terminology

docs/running-machines/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: Running machines
---

# Running machines

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events", "states", "context", "options-intro"] -->

We’ve now covered configuring statecharts and setting up their states, transitions, and options.

Next, we need to learn how to _execute_ our machines in code. Depending on where you’re using XState, you’ll likely need to run machines differently. We’ll start with the VanillaJS approach for now.

## Interpret

The `interpret` interpreter provides us with a “running” and _interactive_ version of our machine.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

const service = interpret(machine).start();
```

In XState, we call that “running” machine a `service`. The most common way to interact with a service is to send it events:

<!-- TODO: maybe refer to this as an 'actor' instead? \-->

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      SAY_HELLO: {
        actions: 'sayHello',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

service.send({
  type: 'SAY_HELLO',
});

// Logs 'Hello!'
```

You can also subscribe to the service via `service.subscribe`:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      SAY_HELLO: {
        actions: 'sayHello',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

// ---cut---

// Fires whenever the state changes
const { unsubscribe } = service.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(
    // We’ll learn what goes inside here soon!
    state
  );
});
```

You can also stop the service by running `service.stop()` which cleans up the service and runs any relevant exit actions:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    on: {
      SAY_HELLO: {
        actions: 'sayHello',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

// ---cut---

service.stop();
```

<!-- TODO - add reference section for interpret \-->

`interpret` can run _anywhere JavaScript runs_, which means you can run XState in the browser, Node, Electron, React Native… anywhere!

<!-- TODO - add URL below \-->

Check out the reference docs on the interpret API for a full deep dive into everything a `service` can do.

## State API

<!-- deps: ["states", "running-machines-intro", "actions", "context"] -->

When running your machine, you’ll want to query the machine to understand which state it’s in. When you run a machine using `interpret`, you can find the state as follows:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

// ---cut---

const service = interpret(machine).start();

const state = service.state;
```

You can also get an updated version when you subscribe to the state:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

const service = interpret(machine).start();

// ---cut---

service.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state);
});
```

This `State` class has a bunch of useful attributes and methods.

### Context

First, you can find the state’s context using `state.context`.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      count: 0,
    },
    on: {
      INCREMENT: {
        actions: 'incrementCount',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      incrementCount: assign((context) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + 1,
        };
      }),
    },
  }
);

const service = interpret(machine).start();

service.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.count);
});

service.send({ type: 'INCREMENT' });
```

### `state.matches`

You can query which state the machine is in by running `state.matches()`. `state.matches()` returns a boolean depending on whether you’re in a matching state.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, interpret, assign } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'toggledOff',
  states: {
    toggledOff: {
      on: {
        TOGGLE: 'toggledOn',
      },
    },
    toggledOn: {
      on: {
        TOGGLE: 'toggledOff',
      },
    },
  },
});

const service = interpret(machine).start();

service.subscribe((state) => {
  const isToggledOn = state.matches('toggledOn');

  console.log(isToggledOn); // true / false
  console.log(state.value); // 'toggledOn' / 'toggledOff'
});
```

You can also use `state.value` to check your machine’s state, but we recommend using `state.matches` because of how it works with parent and child states. We’ll talk more about parent states later. [Jump directly to parent and child states](/states/advanced-transitions).

### Changed

You can check if a state was _changed_ by the most recently received event. The state was changed if:

1. There was a change in `state.value`. For example, moving from `toggledOn` to `toggledOff`.
2. A value in context was changed.

## Running machines as pure functions

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events","intro-to-state-api","actions"] -->

You can use `machine.transition` to run your machine as a pure function without executing any of its actions. `machine.transition` is a pure function that takes two arguments:

- `state`, the `State` to transition from
- `event`, the event that causes the transition

`machine.transition` returns a new `State` resulting from taking all the transitions enabled by the current state and event.

```js
const machine = createMachine({
  /* ... */
});

const initialState = machine.initialState;

// determine next state based on current state and event
const yellowState = machine.transition(initialState, {
  type: 'TIMER',
});

console.log(yellowState.value);
// => 'yellow'
```
