docs/states/final-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Final states
---

:::tip

Watch our [“What are final states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqW8Gz4NYDc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=7) (55s).

:::

When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. The box with a surrounding border icon represents the final state.

A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

In the video player below, *Stopped* is the final child state in the *Opened* state. When the video player is *Stopped*, the video player moves to its *Closed* state.

[Video player 0, highlighting final state]

### How to make a state a final state

First, select the state you want to set as the final state.

#### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **Final** from the **Type** options.

#### Using the **State details** panel

1. Select the state you want to set as the final state.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose **Final** from the **Type** dropdown menu.

Commit message:

Ensured docs content is up-to-date with its corresponding studio tuts
Including:
- Adding links to example machines
- Adding screenshot alt text (no screenshots yet)
- Ensuring heading levels are correct for docs

docs/states/final-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Final states
---

:::tip

Watch our [“What are final states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqW8Gz4NYDc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=7) (55s).

:::

When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. The box with a surrounding border icon represents the final state.

A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

In the video player below, *Stopped* is the final child state in the *Opened* state. When the video player is *Stopped*, the video player moves to its *Closed* state.

![Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped, represented by an icon alongside the Stopped label of a square with a double border. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds.](TODO:)

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=c6f8ca35-25e3-4fc6-b4fe-c9994715852e).


## How to make a state a final state

First, select the state you want to set as the final state.

### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **Final** from the **Type** options.

### Using the **State details** panel

1. Select the state you want to set as the final state.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose **Final** from the **Type** dropdown menu.
