docs/states/initial-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Initial states
---

:::tip

Watch our [“What are initial states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=goCpmgyrjL0&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=3) (1m17s).

:::

When a state machine starts, it enters the **initial state** first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state; if there were multiple initial states, the machine wouldn’t know where to start!

The filled circle with an arrow icon represents the initial state.

In our video player, paused is the initial state because the video player is paused by default and requires user interaction to start playing.

[Screenshot of video player 1, with initial state highlighted]

### How to change the initial state

Each new machine or parent state will set the first new state as its initial state by default.

#### Using the **quick actions** menu:
1. Select the state you wish to make the new initial state.
2. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
3. Choose **Mark as initial state** from the **quick actions** menu.

#### Using the **State details** panel:
1. Select the parent state or parent machine.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose the new initial state from the **initial state** dropdown menu.

Commit message:

Ensured docs content is up-to-date with its corresponding studio tuts
Including:
- Adding links to example machines
- Adding screenshot alt text (no screenshots yet)
- Ensuring heading levels are correct for docs

docs/states/initial-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Initial states
---

:::tip

Watch our [“What are initial states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=goCpmgyrjL0&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=3) (1m17s).

:::

When a state machine starts, it enters the **initial state** first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state; if there were multiple initial states, the machine wouldn’t know where to start!

In our video player, paused is the initial state because the video player is paused by default and requires user interaction to start playing.

![State machine with an initial state of Paused, transitioning through a Play event to the Playing state. From the Playing state back to the Paused state is a Pause event.](TODO:)

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=3ebc8874-2294-480b-a06e-74845337cd8d).

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, the filled circle with an arrow icon represents the initial state.

:::

## How to change the initial state

Each new machine or parent state will set the first new state as its initial state by default.

### Using the **quick actions** menu:
1. Select the state you wish to make the new initial state.
2. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
3. Choose **Mark as initial state** from the **quick actions** menu.

### Using the **State details** panel:
1. Select the parent state or parent machine.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose the desired initial state from the Initial state dropdown menu.
