docs/states/parent-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Parent states
---

States can contain more states, also known as **child states**. These child states are only active when the parent state is active.

Child states are nested inside their parent states.

:::video

Watch our [“Parent and child states” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUhEdeIf_mQ&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=5) (1m6s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=9ba5377c-aab3-4465-8909-4eea499622fa"
/>

In the video player above, the *Opened* state is a parent state to the *Playing*, *Paused*, and *Stopped* states. These states, their transitions, and their events are nested inside the *Opened* state.

## Add a child state

1. Select the state that will become the parent state.
2. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Child state** from the menu to add a child state to your state.

If a state already contains child states, you can double-click inside the parent state to create another child state.

## Change the parent state of a child state

Using the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel:

1. Select the child state you want to reparent.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose your desired new parent from the **Parent** dropdown menu.

### Using copy and paste from the edit menu

1. Right-click the child state you want to reparent to open the edit menu.
2. Select **Copy** to copy the state.
3. Right-click the desired new parent to open the edit menu.
4. Select **Paste** to paste the child state into the parent state.

### Using copy and paste keyboard shortcuts

1. Select the child state you want to reparent.
2. Use **Command**/**Ctrl** + **C** to copy the state.
3. Select the desired new parent state.
4. Use **Command**/**Ctrl** + **V** to paste the child state into the parent state.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use parent and child states in XState?

Find out [more about parent and child states in XState](/xstate/states/parent-and-child-states.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

More search engine optimisation (#171)
* Paginate blog posts to improve performance

* Fix tip box at end of actors page

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Add meta descriptions for coc and privacy pages

Towards STA-4286

* Start writing custom meta descriptions for docs pages

* Change site title to Stately docs and blog

Towards STA-4518

* Take back change of title, as not SEO-friendly in length

* Shorten over-long blog post titles for SEO

* Fix typo

* Add/improve meta descriptions for model-based testing section.

* Improve meta descriptions for XState package docs

docs/states/parent-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Parent states
description: 'Parent states can contain more states, also known as child states. These child states are only active when the parent state is active.'
---

States can contain more states, also known as **child states**. These child states are only active when the parent state is active.

Child states are nested inside their parent states.

:::video

Watch our [“Parent and child states” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUhEdeIf_mQ&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=5) (1m6s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=9ba5377c-aab3-4465-8909-4eea499622fa"
/>

In the video player above, the *Opened* state is a parent state to the *Playing*, *Paused*, and *Stopped* states. These states, their transitions, and their events are nested inside the *Opened* state.

## Add a child state

1. Select the state that will become the parent state.
2. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Child state** from the menu to add a child state to your state.

If a state already contains child states, you can double-click inside the parent state to create another child state.

## Change the parent state of a child state

Using the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel:

1. Select the child state you want to reparent.
2. Open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose your desired new parent from the **Parent** dropdown menu.

### Using copy and paste from the edit menu

1. Right-click the child state you want to reparent to open the edit menu.
2. Select **Copy** to copy the state.
3. Right-click the desired new parent to open the edit menu.
4. Select **Paste** to paste the child state into the parent state.

### Using copy and paste keyboard shortcuts

1. Select the child state you want to reparent.
2. Use **Command**/**Ctrl** + **C** to copy the state.
3. Select the desired new parent state.
4. Use **Command**/**Ctrl** + **V** to paste the child state into the parent state.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use parent and child states in XState?

Find out [more about parent and child states in XState](/xstate/states/parent-and-child-states.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
