versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: XState
slug: '/xstate'
---

XState is a JavaScript and TypeScript library for creating, interpreting, and executing finite state machines and statecharts, as well as managing invocations of those machines as actors.

- [Install XState](/xstate/installation.mdx)
- [Learn about the XState basics](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart.mdx)

:::xstate

## Download the XState VS Code extension

- [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=statelyai.stately-vscode)
- [Open VSX Registry](https://open-vsx.org/extension/statelyai/stately-vscode)

:::

[Read more about our developer tools](/tools/developer-tools.mdx).

## Packages

- 🤖 [xstate](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/): Core finite state machine and statecharts library + interpreter
- 🔬 [@xstate/fsm](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-fsm): Minimal finite state machine library
- 📉 [@xstate/graph](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-graph): Graph traversal utilities for XState
- ⚛️ [@xstate/react](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-react): React hooks and utilities for using XState in React applications
- 💚 [@xstate/vue](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-vue): Vue composition functions and utilities for using XState in Vue applications
- 🎷 [@xstate/svelte](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-svelte): Svelte utilities for using XState in Svelte applications
- ✅ [@xstate/test](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-test): Model-Based-Testing utilities (using XState) for testing any software
- 🔍 [@xstate/inspect](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-inspect): Inspection utilities for XState

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: XState
slug: '/xstate'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read more about XState v5](/docs/xstate).

:::

XState is a JavaScript and TypeScript library for creating, interpreting, and executing finite state machines and statecharts, as well as managing invocations of those machines as actors.

- [Install XState](/xstate/installation.mdx)
- [Learn about the XState basics](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart.mdx)

:::xstate

## Download the XState VS Code extension

- [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=statelyai.stately-vscode)
- [Open VSX Registry](https://open-vsx.org/extension/statelyai/stately-vscode)

:::

[Read more about our developer tools](/tools/developer-tools.mdx).

## Packages

- 🤖 [xstate](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/): Core finite state machine and statecharts library + interpreter
- 🔬 [@xstate/fsm](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-fsm): Minimal finite state machine library
- 📉 [@xstate/graph](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-graph): Graph traversal utilities for XState
- ⚛️ [@xstate/react](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-react): React hooks and utilities for using XState in React applications
- 💚 [@xstate/vue](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-vue): Vue composition functions and utilities for using XState in Vue applications
- 🎷 [@xstate/svelte](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-svelte): Svelte utilities for using XState in Svelte applications
- ✅ [@xstate/test](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-test): Model-Based-Testing utilities (using XState) for testing any software
- 🔍 [@xstate/inspect](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-inspect): Inspection utilities for XState
