versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/templates.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Templates'
description: 'We have XState templates for TypeScript, React Typescript, Vue, Svelte, and more!'
---

Check out our new templates:

- [XState TypeScript template](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/vanilla-ts)
- [XState React TypeScript template](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/react-ts)

Or get started by forking one of these templates on CodeSandbox:

- [XState template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-example-template-m4ckv) - no framework
- [XState + TypeScript template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-typescript-template-s9kz8) - no framework
- [XState + React template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-react-template-3t2tg)
- [XState + React + TypeScript template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-react-typescript-template-wjdvn)
- [XState + Vue template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-vue-template-composition-api-1n23l)
- [XState + Vue 3 template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-vue-3-template-vrkk9)
- [XState + Svelte template](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/svelte-ts)

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/templates.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Templates'
description: 'We have XState templates for TypeScript, React Typescript, Vue, Svelte, and more!'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Check out our templates for XState v5](/docs/templates).

:::

Check out our new templates:

- [XState TypeScript template](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/vanilla-ts)
- [XState React TypeScript template](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/react-ts)

Or get started by forking one of these templates on CodeSandbox:

- [XState template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-example-template-m4ckv) - no framework
- [XState + TypeScript template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-typescript-template-s9kz8) - no framework
- [XState + React template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-react-template-3t2tg)
- [XState + React + TypeScript template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-react-typescript-template-wjdvn)
- [XState + Vue template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-vue-template-composition-api-1n23l)
- [XState + Vue 3 template](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-vue-3-template-vrkk9)
- [XState + Svelte template](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/svelte-ts)
