versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/transitions-and-choices/guarded-actions.mdx, before:

---
title: Guarded actions
---

# Guarded actions

<!-- deps: ["actions", "guards", "transitions-and-events", "context"] -->

You can use actions and guards together to run actions conditionally on transitions.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const atmMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      balance: 20,
    },
    initial: 'showingBalance',
    states: {
      showingBalance: {
        on: {
          WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS: {
            cond: 'hasAtLeastTenDollars',
            actions: 'logTenDollarsComing',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      hasAtLeastTenDollars: (context) => {
        return context.balance >= 10;
      },
    },
    actions: {
      logTenDollarsComing: () => {
        console.log(`Here's your ten dollars!`);
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, when the user withdraws ten dollars via `WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS`, we check first if the balance in `context` has at least 10 dollars.

We can add an else condition to `WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS` too:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const atmMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      balance: 20,
    },
    initial: 'showingBalance',
    states: {
      showingBalance: {
        on: {
          // highlight-start
          WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS: [
            {
              cond: 'hasAtLeastTenDollars',
              actions: 'logTenDollarsComing',
            },
            {
              actions: 'sayThereIsNotEnoughInTheAccount',
            },
          ],
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      hasAtLeastTenDollars: (context) => {
        return context.balance >= 10;
      },
    },
    actions: {
      logTenDollarsComing: () => {
        console.log(`Here's your ten dollars!`);
      },
      sayThereIsNotEnoughInTheAccount: () => {
        console.log('Not enough in the account!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, if we have at least ten dollars in the account, we’ll log that the dollars are coming. Else, we’ll log that there’s not enough in the account.

Remember, **the cond always runs _before_ the action**. XState first checks if it should run the action by running the `cond`, and only then runs the action.

<!-- TODO: write a tip (or section on its own) on using always to run actions on every transition… Sometimes you’ll want to run actions on every branch of a transition. Read our tip for that use case below. \-->

## The `choose` action

<!-- deps: ["actions", "guards", "guarded-actions"] -->

The `choose()` built-in action is an alternative API for guarded actions. `choose` lets you pick which actions should be executed based on some conditions inside the action itself.

The `choose()` approach helps you be more flexible with where you run actions. For example, you can run actions inside an entry action:

```ts
import { actions, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const logMachine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: actions.choose([
      {
        cond: 'inBrowser',
        actions: 'alertUser',
      },
      {
        actions: 'logToUser',
      },
    ]),
  },
  {
    guards: {
      inBrowser: () => {
        return typeof window === 'undefined';
      },
    },
    actions: {
      alertUser: () => {
        alert('Hello, browser!');
      },
      logToUser: () => {
        console.log('Hello, server!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

Like all built-in actions, you must apply the result of `choose()` directly to an `actions` attribute. The following example will not work:

```ts
import { actions, createMachine } from 'xstate';
const logMachine = createMachine({
  entry: () => {
    // 🚫 The following action just returns an object,
    // it doesn’t do anything
    actions.choose([
      {
        cond: 'inBrowser',
        actions: 'alertUser',
      },
      {
        actions: 'logToUser',
      },
    ]);
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/transitions-and-choices/guarded-actions.mdx, after:

---
title: Guarded actions
---

# Guarded actions

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about guards in XState V5](/docs/guards).

:::

You can use actions and guards together to run actions conditionally on transitions.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const atmMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      balance: 20,
    },
    initial: 'showingBalance',
    states: {
      showingBalance: {
        on: {
          WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS: {
            cond: 'hasAtLeastTenDollars',
            actions: 'logTenDollarsComing',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      hasAtLeastTenDollars: (context) => {
        return context.balance >= 10;
      },
    },
    actions: {
      logTenDollarsComing: () => {
        console.log(`Here's your ten dollars!`);
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, when the user withdraws ten dollars via `WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS`, we check first if the balance in `context` has at least 10 dollars.

We can add an else condition to `WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS` too:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const atmMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      balance: 20,
    },
    initial: 'showingBalance',
    states: {
      showingBalance: {
        on: {
          // highlight-start
          WITHDRAW_TEN_DOLLARS: [
            {
              cond: 'hasAtLeastTenDollars',
              actions: 'logTenDollarsComing',
            },
            {
              actions: 'sayThereIsNotEnoughInTheAccount',
            },
          ],
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      hasAtLeastTenDollars: (context) => {
        return context.balance >= 10;
      },
    },
    actions: {
      logTenDollarsComing: () => {
        console.log(`Here's your ten dollars!`);
      },
      sayThereIsNotEnoughInTheAccount: () => {
        console.log('Not enough in the account!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, if we have at least ten dollars in the account, we’ll log that the dollars are coming. Else, we’ll log that there’s not enough in the account.

Remember, **the cond always runs _before_ the action**. XState first checks if it should run the action by running the `cond`, and only then runs the action.

## The `choose` action

The `choose()` built-in action is an alternative API for guarded actions. `choose` lets you pick which actions should be executed based on some conditions inside the action itself.

The `choose()` approach helps you be more flexible with where you run actions. For example, you can run actions inside an entry action:

```ts
import { actions, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const logMachine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: actions.choose([
      {
        cond: 'inBrowser',
        actions: 'alertUser',
      },
      {
        actions: 'logToUser',
      },
    ]),
  },
  {
    guards: {
      inBrowser: () => {
        return typeof window === 'undefined';
      },
    },
    actions: {
      alertUser: () => {
        alert('Hello, browser!');
      },
      logToUser: () => {
        console.log('Hello, server!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

Like all built-in actions, you must apply the result of `choose()` directly to an `actions` attribute. The following example will not work:

```ts
import { actions, createMachine } from 'xstate';
const logMachine = createMachine({
  entry: () => {
    // 🚫 The following action just returns an object,
    // it doesn’t do anything
    actions.choose([
      {
        cond: 'inBrowser',
        actions: 'alertUser',
      },
      {
        actions: 'logToUser',
      },
    ]);
  },
});
```
