versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/transitions-and-choices/internal-external.mdx, before:

---
title: Internal and external transitions
---

# Internal and external transitions

<!-- deps: ["actions","transitions-and-events","self-transitions","after"] -->

Transitions in statecharts can be one of two types: **internal** or **external**. External transitions are transitions that leave the machine’s current state node; the “source” state node on which the transition is defined.

In the example below, `a -> FOO -> b` is an external transition.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine({
  initial: 'a',
  states: {
    a: {
      on: {
        FOO: 'b',
      },
    },
    b: {},
  },
});
```

The transition leaves the `a` state and goes to the `b` state, making it an external transition.

Internal transitions do not leave the current state. For example, self-transitions are internal transitions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'a',
    states: {
      a: {
        on: {
          FOO: {
            actions: 'sayHello',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

The `FOO` transition never leaves the `a` state, which makes it an internal transition.

However, you can _force_ an internal transition to become an external transition. For self-transitions, you can specify the target on the transition to force it to be an external transition:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'a',
    states: {
      a: {
        entry: ['logThatThisStateWasEntered'],
        on: {
          FOO: {
            target: 'a',
            actions: 'sayHello',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
      logThatThisStateWasEntered: () => {
        console.log('A was entered!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

When `target` is `a`, the transition becomes external, which means the node is exited and re-entered and the **entry and exit actions will be re-fired**. You can use this trick to re-run delays, restart services and it is also useful in parent and child states.

<!-- TODO - rewrite this so that it uses delays as its example, now that it depends on after \-->

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/transitions-and-choices/internal-external.mdx, after:

---
title: Internal and external transitions
---

# Internal and external transitions

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about re-entering transitions in XState V5](/docs/transitions#re-entering).

:::

Transitions in statecharts can be one of two types: **internal** or **external**. External transitions are transitions that leave the machine’s current state node; the “source” state node on which the transition is defined.

In the example below, `a -> FOO -> b` is an external transition.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine({
  initial: 'a',
  states: {
    a: {
      on: {
        FOO: 'b',
      },
    },
    b: {},
  },
});
```

The transition leaves the `a` state and goes to the `b` state, making it an external transition.

Internal transitions do not leave the current state. For example, self-transitions are internal transitions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'a',
    states: {
      a: {
        on: {
          FOO: {
            actions: 'sayHello',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

The `FOO` transition never leaves the `a` state, which makes it an internal transition.

However, you can _force_ an internal transition to become an external transition. For self-transitions, you can specify the target on the transition to force it to be an external transition:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'a',
    states: {
      a: {
        entry: ['logThatThisStateWasEntered'],
        on: {
          FOO: {
            target: 'a',
            actions: 'sayHello',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
      logThatThisStateWasEntered: () => {
        console.log('A was entered!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

When `target` is `a`, the transition becomes external, which means the node is exited and re-entered and the **entry and exit actions will be re-fired**. You can use this trick to re-run delays, restart services and it is also useful in parent and child states.
