content/docs/testing.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Testing'
description: 'How to test state machine and actor logic in XState'
---

## Testing logic

Testing actor logic is important for ensuring that the logic is correct and that it behaves as expected. You can test your state machines and actors using various testing libraries and tools. You should follow the **Arrange, Act, Assert** pattern when writing tests for your state machines and actors:

- **Arrange** - set up the test by creating the actor logics (such as a state machine) and the actors from the actor logics.
- **Act** - send event(s) to the actor(s).
- **Assert** - assert that the actor(s) reached their expected state(s) and/or executed the expected side effects.

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';
import { test, expect } from 'vitest';

test('some actor', async () => {
  const notifiedMessages: string[] = [];

  // 1. Arrange
  const machine = setup({
    actions: {
      notify: (_, params) => {
        notifiedMessages.push(params.message);
      },
    },
  }).createMachine({
    initial: 'inactive',
    states: {
      inactive: {
        on: { toggle: { target: 'active' } },
      },
      active: {
        entry: { type: 'notify', params: { message: 'Active!' } },
        on: { toggle: { target: 'inactive' } },
      },
    },
  });

  const actor = createActor(machine);

  // 2. Act
  actor.start();
  actor.send({ type: 'toggle' }); // => should be in 'active' state
  actor.send({ type: 'toggle' }); // => should be in 'inactive' state
  actor.send({ type: 'toggle' }); // => should be in 'active' state

  // 3. Assert
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('active');
  expect(notifiedMessages).toEqual(['Active!', 'Active!']);
});
```

<Callout>

You can now [generate test paths from your state machines in Stately Studio](generate-test-paths). You can try Stately Studio’s premium plans with a free trial. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan), [Team plan](studio-team-plan), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan) or [upgrade your existing plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

</Callout>

## Testing actors

When testing actors, you typically want to verify that they transition to the correct state and update their context appropriately when receiving events.

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';
import { test, expect } from 'vitest';

test('actor transitions correctly', () => {
  const toggleMachine = setup({}).createMachine({
    initial: 'inactive',
    context: { count: 0 },
    states: {
      inactive: {
        on: { 
          activate: { 
            target: 'active',
            actions: assign({ count: ({ context }) => context.count + 1 })
          }
        }
      },
      active: {
        on: { 
          deactivate: 'inactive' 
        }
      }
    }
  });

  const actor = createActor(toggleMachine);
  actor.start();

  // Test initial state
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('inactive');
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().context.count).toBe(0);

  // Send event and test transition
  actor.send({ type: 'activate' });
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('active');
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().context.count).toBe(1);

  // Send another event
  actor.send({ type: 'deactivate' });
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('inactive');
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().context.count).toBe(1);
});
```

## Mocking effects

When testing state machines that have side effects (like API calls, logging, or other external interactions), you should mock these effects to make your tests deterministic and isolated.

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';
import { test, expect, vi } from 'vitest';

test('mocking actions', () => {
  const mockLogger = vi.fn();
  
  const machine = setup({
    actions: {
      // Mock the logging action
      logMessage: mockLogger
    }
  }).createMachine({
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        on: {
          start: {
            target: 'running',
            actions: { 
              type: 'logMessage', 
              params: { message: 'Started!' } 
            }
          }
        }
      },
      running: {}
    }
  });

  const actor = createActor(machine);
  actor.start();
  
  actor.send({ type: 'start' });
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('running');
  expect(mockLogger).toHaveBeenCalledWith(
    expect.anything(), // action meta
    { message: 'Started!' } // params
  );
});
```

For promise-based actors, you can mock the promises:

```ts
test('mocking promise actors', async () => {
  const mockFetch = vi.fn().mockResolvedValue({ data: 'test' });
  
  const machine = setup({
    actors: {
      fetchData: fromPromise(mockFetch)
    }
  }).createMachine({
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        on: {
          fetch: 'loading'
        }
      },
      loading: {
        invoke: {
          src: 'fetchData',
          onDone: 'success',
          onError: 'error'
        }
      },
      success: {},
      error: {}
    }
  });

  const actor = createActor(machine);
  actor.start();
  
  actor.send({ type: 'fetch' });
  
  // Wait for promise to resolve
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 0));
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('success');
  expect(mockFetch).toHaveBeenCalled();
});
```

## Using `@xstate/test`

<Callout type="warning">

The XState Test model-based testing utilities have moved into `xstate` itself and are now available under `xstate/graph`. The standalone `@xstate/test` package is deprecated in favor of the integrated testing utilities.

</Callout>

The model-based testing utilities allow you to automatically generate test cases from your state machines, ensuring comprehensive coverage of all possible paths and edge cases.

Commit message:

Add docs on transient states

content/docs/testing.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Testing'
description: 'How to test state machine and actor logic in XState'
---

## Testing logic

Testing actor logic is important for ensuring that the logic is correct and that it behaves as expected. You can test your state machines and actors using various testing libraries and tools. You should follow the **Arrange, Act, Assert** pattern when writing tests for your state machines and actors:

- **Arrange** - set up the test by creating the actor logics (such as a state machine) and the actors from the actor logics.
- **Act** - send event(s) to the actor(s).
- **Assert** - assert that the actor(s) reached their expected state(s) and/or executed the expected side effects.

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';
import { test, expect } from 'vitest';

test('some actor', async () => {
  const notifiedMessages: string[] = [];

  // 1. Arrange
  const machine = setup({
    actions: {
      notify: (_, params) => {
        notifiedMessages.push(params.message);
      },
    },
  }).createMachine({
    initial: 'inactive',
    states: {
      inactive: {
        on: { toggle: { target: 'active' } },
      },
      active: {
        entry: { type: 'notify', params: { message: 'Active!' } },
        on: { toggle: { target: 'inactive' } },
      },
    },
  });

  const actor = createActor(machine);

  // 2. Act
  actor.start();
  actor.send({ type: 'toggle' }); // => should be in 'active' state
  actor.send({ type: 'toggle' }); // => should be in 'inactive' state
  actor.send({ type: 'toggle' }); // => should be in 'active' state

  // 3. Assert
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('active');
  expect(notifiedMessages).toEqual(['Active!', 'Active!']);
});
```

<Callout>

You can now [generate test paths from your state machines in Stately Studio](generate-test-paths). You can try Stately Studio’s premium plans with a free trial. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan), [Team plan](studio-team-plan), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan) or [upgrade your existing plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

</Callout>

## Testing actors

When testing actors, you typically want to verify that they transition to the correct state and update their context appropriately when receiving events.

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';
import { test, expect } from 'vitest';

test('actor transitions correctly', () => {
  const toggleMachine = setup({}).createMachine({
    initial: 'inactive',
    context: { count: 0 },
    states: {
      inactive: {
        on: { 
          activate: { 
            target: 'active',
            actions: assign({ count: ({ context }) => context.count + 1 })
          }
        }
      },
      active: {
        on: { 
          deactivate: 'inactive' 
        }
      }
    }
  });

  const actor = createActor(toggleMachine);
  actor.start();

  // Test initial state
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('inactive');
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().context.count).toBe(0);

  // Send event and test transition
  actor.send({ type: 'activate' });
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('active');
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().context.count).toBe(1);

  // Send another event
  actor.send({ type: 'deactivate' });
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('inactive');
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().context.count).toBe(1);
});
```

## Testing machines with eventless transitions

When you use `waitFor()`, or assert on `getSnapshot().value`, `getSnapshot().matches(...)`, or `getSnapshot().hasTag(...)`, be aware that **states that are only entered and left via [eventless (`always`) transitions](eventless-transitions) in the same step are not observable**. The actor only emits the final snapshot after all eventless transitions are applied, so those intermediate states never appear to subscribers or in the current snapshot.

If your test needs to wait for or assert on such a state, either use the [inspection API](inspection) and listen for `@xstate.microstep` events, or change the machine to use a zero-delay delayed transition (`after: { 0: 'nextState' }`) instead of `always` so that a snapshot is emitted. See [Eventless transitions – Observability and transient states](eventless-transitions#observability-and-transient-states) for details.

## Mocking effects

When testing state machines that have side effects (like API calls, logging, or other external interactions), you should mock these effects to make your tests deterministic and isolated.

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';
import { test, expect, vi } from 'vitest';

test('mocking actions', () => {
  const mockLogger = vi.fn();
  
  const machine = setup({
    actions: {
      // Mock the logging action
      logMessage: mockLogger
    }
  }).createMachine({
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        on: {
          start: {
            target: 'running',
            actions: { 
              type: 'logMessage', 
              params: { message: 'Started!' } 
            }
          }
        }
      },
      running: {}
    }
  });

  const actor = createActor(machine);
  actor.start();
  
  actor.send({ type: 'start' });
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('running');
  expect(mockLogger).toHaveBeenCalledWith(
    expect.anything(), // action meta
    { message: 'Started!' } // params
  );
});
```

For promise-based actors, you can mock the promises:

```ts
test('mocking promise actors', async () => {
  const mockFetch = vi.fn().mockResolvedValue({ data: 'test' });
  
  const machine = setup({
    actors: {
      fetchData: fromPromise(mockFetch)
    }
  }).createMachine({
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        on: {
          fetch: 'loading'
        }
      },
      loading: {
        invoke: {
          src: 'fetchData',
          onDone: 'success',
          onError: 'error'
        }
      },
      success: {},
      error: {}
    }
  });

  const actor = createActor(machine);
  actor.start();
  
  actor.send({ type: 'fetch' });
  
  // Wait for promise to resolve
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 0));
  
  expect(actor.getSnapshot().value).toBe('success');
  expect(mockFetch).toHaveBeenCalled();
});
```

## Using `@xstate/test`

<Callout type="warning">

The XState Test model-based testing utilities have moved into `xstate` itself and are now available under `xstate/graph`. The standalone `@xstate/test` package is deprecated in favor of the integrated testing utilities.

</Callout>

The model-based testing utilities allow you to automatically generate test cases from your state machines, ensuring comprehensive coverage of all possible paths and edge cases.
