blog/2022-03-28-stately-is-hiring/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Stately is hiring!"
description: We’re hiring for a frontend engineer, backend engineer, developer advocate and product designer at Stately.
tags: [stately, hiring]
authors: [laura]
date: 2022-03-28
image: share.png
---

We’re hiring for a frontend engineer, backend engineer, developer advocate and product designer at Stately. You can [check out the Careers at Stately page on Notion](https://statelyai.notion.site/Careers-at-Stately-db3d704abd8f41058e5361e5ab9c1098).

<!--truncate-->

## About Stately

Stately is building **the visual future of software development.**

At Stately, we want to make app and business logic accessible to the entire team and eliminate barriers between development, design, and product to make it easier to build and maintain complex applications quickly and robustly.

We enable development teams to collaborate effectively on even the most complex logic and flows with visual tools and insightful services. Helping them speak a common language so that the specifications, designs, and code are always synchronized, up-to-date, and visually clear.

We’re building a team inspired to work on this mission to make software development better for everyone and practice what we preach, both inside Stately and everywhere else.

## Questions from our office hours  stream last week

During [our office hours live stream last week](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w), we answered questions about working with Stately. You can find the questions and links to the timecode with our responses below.

### About the job listings

- [What are the responsibilities of the product designer role?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=826s)
- [What is the hiring process?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=943s)
- [What is the definition of a senior developer? (And other roles)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1627s)
- [Is there a trial period?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1175s)

### About Stately

- [When was the company founded, and how are you financially sustainable?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1115s)
- [What exciting projects would you be working on at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=705s)

### About the Stately team

- [How many people are on the Stately team?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1225s)
- [Should I apply if I feel underqualified? What would help me get the role in the future?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1313s)
- [How well can Stately support neurodivergent people?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1969s)

### About timezones and locations

- [Are these jobs remote? Yes!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=806s)
- [Which timezones do Stately currently work within?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1753s)
- [Where are you folks based?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1802s)

### About the day-to-day at Stately

- [What does team collaboration look like at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1364s)
- [What is the work culture like from an insider perspective?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1845s)
- [Are there a lot of video calls at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1441s)
- [What is the balance of sync vs. async collaboration at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1508s)
- [What is a good day at Stately vs. a bad day at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=2029s)

Commit message:

Update share images in blog front matter to fix URLs (#133)

blog/2022-03-28-stately-is-hiring/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Stately is hiring!"
description: We’re hiring for a frontend engineer, backend engineer, developer advocate and product designer at Stately.
tags: [stately, hiring]
authors: [laura]
date: 2022-03-28
image: /blog/2022/03/28/stately-is-hiring/share.png
slug: /2022/03/28/stately-is-hiring
---

We’re hiring for a frontend engineer, backend engineer, developer advocate and product designer at Stately. You can [check out the Careers at Stately page on Notion](https://statelyai.notion.site/Careers-at-Stately-db3d704abd8f41058e5361e5ab9c1098).

<!--truncate-->

## About Stately

Stately is building **the visual future of software development.**

At Stately, we want to make app and business logic accessible to the entire team and eliminate barriers between development, design, and product to make it easier to build and maintain complex applications quickly and robustly.

We enable development teams to collaborate effectively on even the most complex logic and flows with visual tools and insightful services. Helping them speak a common language so that the specifications, designs, and code are always synchronized, up-to-date, and visually clear.

We’re building a team inspired to work on this mission to make software development better for everyone and practice what we preach, both inside Stately and everywhere else.

## Questions from our office hours  stream last week

During [our office hours live stream last week](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w), we answered questions about working with Stately. You can find the questions and links to the timecode with our responses below.

### About the job listings

- [What are the responsibilities of the product designer role?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=826s)
- [What is the hiring process?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=943s)
- [What is the definition of a senior developer? (And other roles)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1627s)
- [Is there a trial period?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1175s)

### About Stately

- [When was the company founded, and how are you financially sustainable?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1115s)
- [What exciting projects would you be working on at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=705s)

### About the Stately team

- [How many people are on the Stately team?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1225s)
- [Should I apply if I feel underqualified? What would help me get the role in the future?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1313s)
- [How well can Stately support neurodivergent people?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1969s)

### About timezones and locations

- [Are these jobs remote? Yes!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=806s)
- [Which timezones do Stately currently work within?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1753s)
- [Where are you folks based?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1802s)

### About the day-to-day at Stately

- [What does team collaboration look like at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1364s)
- [What is the work culture like from an insider perspective?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1845s)
- [Are there a lot of video calls at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1441s)
- [What is the balance of sync vs. async collaboration at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=1508s)
- [What is a good day at Stately vs. a bad day at Stately?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYCnVkaUT3w&t=2029s)
