docs/transitions-and-events/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: Transitions and events
---

:::tip

Watch our [“Transitions and events” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0qgP4RZyq58&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=4) (1m50s).

:::

A machine moves from state to state through **transitions**. Transitions are caused by events; when an event happens, the machine transitions to the next state.

Transitions are “deterministic”; each combination of state and event always points to the same next state.

The arrows are transitions, and the rounded rectangles on the arrow’s lines are events. Each transition has a **source** state which comes before the transition, and a **target** state, which comes after the transition. The transition’s arrow starts from the source state and points to the target state.

[Screenshot of video player 2, with the events and transitions highlighted]

In the video player machine above, the events are *PLAY* and *PAUSE*. The *Play* event transitions from the *Paused* state to the *Playing* state. The *Pause* event transitions from the *Playing* state to the *Paused* state.

### How to add a transition and event

1. Select your machine or an existing state.
2. Drag from the handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.

### How to change the source and target states for a transition or event

First select the transition or event you want to change. Then…

#### Using the **Transition details** panel

1. Select the transition or event you wish to change.
2. Open the **Transition details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose a new source state from the **Source** dropdown options.
4. Choose a new target state from the **Target** dropdown options.

#### Dragging the transition handles

1. Select the transition or event you want to change.
2. Drag the transition’s handle connected to the source state to connect it to a new source state.
3. Drag the transition’s handle connected to the target state to connect it to a new target state.

### How to switch the source and target states for a transition or event

1. Select the transition or event.
2. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
3. Choose **Switch source and target** from the **quick actions** menu.

Commit message:

Ensured docs content is up-to-date with its corresponding studio tuts
Including:
- Adding links to example machines
- Adding screenshot alt text (no screenshots yet)
- Ensuring heading levels are correct for docs

docs/transitions-and-events/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: Transitions and events
---

:::tip

Watch our [“Transitions and events” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0qgP4RZyq58&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=4) (1m50s).

:::

A machine moves from state to state through **transitions**. Transitions are caused by events; when an event happens, the machine transitions to the next state.

Transitions are “deterministic”; each combination of state and event always points to the same next state.

The arrows are transitions, and the rounded rectangles on the arrow’s lines are events. Each transition has a **source** state which comes before the transition, and a **target** state, which comes after the transition. The transition’s arrow starts from the source state and points to the target state.

![A video player state machine with an initial Paused State and a Playing state. The Play event transitions from Paused to Playing. The Pause event transitions from Playing to Paused.](TODO:)

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=9630e3b7-9f8e-4dc9-8b55-661f854d28b7).

In the video player machine above, the events are *PLAY* and *PAUSE*. The *Play* event transitions from the *Paused* state to the *Playing* state. The *Pause* event transitions from the *Playing* state to the *Paused* state.

## How to add a transition and event

1. Select an existing state.
2. Drag from the handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.

## How to change the source and target states for a transition or event

First select the transition or event you want to change. Then…

### Using the **Transition details** panel

1. Select the transition or event you wish to change.
2. Open the **Transition details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose a new source state from the **Source** dropdown options.
4. Choose a new target state from the **Target** dropdown options.

### Dragging the transition handles

1. Select the transition or event you want to change.
2. Drag the transition’s handle connected to the source state to connect it to a new source state.
3. Drag the transition’s handle connected to the target state to connect it to a new target state.

## How to switch the source and target states for a transition or event

1. Select the transition or event.
2. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
3. Choose **Switch source and target** from the **quick actions** menu.
