versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/basics/inline-vs-named-options.mdx, before:

---
title: Inline vs. named Options
description: 'Named actions are when you pass options into the config using names. You can also declare your actions inline without names.'
---

# Inline vs. named Options

<!-- deps: ["options-api"] -->

In the examples so far, we’ve passed options into the config using names:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
});
```

These are called **named** actions. You can do the same with named guards, actors and delays, and we’ll get to those later.

However, if you don’t want to name your actions, you can also declare them inline:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    () => {
      console.log('Hello!');
    },
  ],
});
```

The difference between named and inline options is mostly stylistic. We support both approaches, and you can mix-and-match named and inline options within the same machine:

```ts
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: [
      // Inline
      () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    ],
    exit: [
      // Named
      'sayGoodbye',
    ],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('sayGoodbye');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

Named options are preferred when using [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx) and also show up better when visualized with our [VS Code extension](/tools/xstate-vscode-extension.mdx). Named options show their name, whereas inline options show an “Inline” label.

When not using typegen, inline options can often give you better type inference than named options.

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/basics/inline-vs-named-options.mdx, after:

---
title: Inline vs. named Options
description: 'Named actions are when you pass options into the config using names. You can also declare your actions inline without names.'
---

# Inline vs. named Options

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about providing implementations for your machines in XState v5](/docs/machines#providing-implementations).

:::

In the examples so far, we’ve passed options into the config using names:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
});
```

These are called **named** actions. You can do the same with named guards, actors and delays, and we’ll get to those later.

However, if you don’t want to name your actions, you can also declare them inline:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    () => {
      console.log('Hello!');
    },
  ],
});
```

The difference between named and inline options is mostly stylistic. We support both approaches, and you can mix-and-match named and inline options within the same machine:

```ts
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: [
      // Inline
      () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    ],
    exit: [
      // Named
      'sayGoodbye',
    ],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayGoodbye: () => {
        console.log('sayGoodbye');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

Named options are preferred when using [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx) and also show up better when visualized with our [VS Code extension](/tools/xstate-vscode-extension.mdx). Named options show their name, whereas inline options show an “Inline” label.

When not using typegen, inline options can often give you better type inference than named options.
