versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/basics/options.mdx, before:

---
title: Options
description: 'The statechart’s config describes how the machine behaves, the machine’s options are implementation details that expand the machine’s capabilities.'
---

Statecharts require that a machine is separated into two parts. The first part is the machine’s **config**. The config describes _how the machine behaves_ — its states, events and transitions.

The second part is a machine’s **options** — implementation details that expand the machine’s capabilities.

Options can:

- Make decisions based on checks, such as an `if/else` statement
- Make changes to the machine’s surrounding environment
- Subscribe to changes from the machine’s outside environment

In XState, the separation is divided between:

| Term    | Description             |
| ------- | ----------------------- |
| Config  | What the machine does   |
| Options | How the machine does it |

Below is an example where we describe in our config that when the machine first starts, it 'says hello', using the `sayHello` action.

```ts
const helloMachine = createMachine({
  /**
   * Below is an 'action' — we’ll
   * learn more about actions later
   */
  entry: ['sayHello'],
});
```

<!-- Add visualisation to the above \-->

As a visualization, the config is readable. But the machine doesn’t _do_ anything yet.

**Options** let us pass an implementation for the `sayHello` action.

```ts
const helloMachine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['sayHello'],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

The separation between “what your code does” and “how your code does it” is powerful because it allows you to understand its purpose without requiring you to read through the implementation details.

## Option types

<!-- deps: ["options-intro"] -->
<!-- loom: 6b2dd2d32acf4e5cbf2d8910ab826616 -->

There are four types of options you can pass to your statechart.

### Guards

Guards allow you to check something before you proceed, enabling you to implement if/else logic in XState.

Below is an example of a guard:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

let iAmHappyAndIKnowIt = true;

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'notClappingHands',
    states: {
      notClappingHands: {
        on: {
          HEAR_MUSIC: {
            /**
             * Name the guard…
             */
            cond: 'ifYoureHappyAndYouKnowIt',
            target: 'clappingHands',
          },
        },
      },
      clappingHands: {},
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      /**
       * …then implement the guard.
       */
      ifYoureHappyAndYouKnowIt: () => {
        return iAmHappyAndIKnowIt;
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, the guard is activated when the machine is in the `notClappingHands` state and reaches the `HEAR_MUSIC` event. If the `ifYoureHappyAndYouKnowIt` guard is true, the machine will go to the `clappingHands` state.

### Actions

Actions allow you to perform simple actions, such as assigning to a variable or calling synchronous actions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['sayHello'],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, `sayHello` will be called when the machine is started.

### Actors

Actors are entities that have their own state and can send and receive events. Actors are useful for processes like:

- Subscribing to a websocket/DOM listener for updates
- Invoking a promise and waiting for it to resolve
- Uploading a file

We’ll revisit actors in more depth later. [Take a fast track to learn more about actors](/actions-and-actors/actors.mdx).

### Delays

Delays are used in XState to represent timers and intervals. We’ll revisit delays in more depth later. [Take a fast track to learn more about delays](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/after.mdx).

## Options API

<!-- deps: ["options-intro", "guards-actions-actors-delays-intro"] -->

You can specify machine options in several places. Firstly, you can set options inside the machine itself:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // Set config here
  },
  {
    // Set options here:
    actions: {},
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {},
    guards: {},
    delays: {},
  },
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in beta. [Check out XState v5 Beta on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-beta.13).

:::

Or, you can specify options later with a `.withConfig` call:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

// ---cut---

machine.withConfig({
  actions: {},
  // `actors` in v5
  services: {},
  guards: {},
  delays: {},
});
```

## Summary

Options are how you make your machine _do_ things. They allow machines to keep control of the config and enable you to pass in options later.

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/basics/options.mdx, after:

---
title: Options
description: 'The statechart’s config describes how the machine behaves, the machine’s options are implementation details that expand the machine’s capabilities.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about providing implementations for your machines in XState v5](/docs/machines#providing-implementations).

:::

Statecharts require that a machine is separated into two parts. The first part is the machine’s **config**. The config describes _how the machine behaves_ — its states, events and transitions.

The second part is a machine’s **options** — implementation details that expand the machine’s capabilities.

Options can:

- Make decisions based on checks, such as an `if/else` statement
- Make changes to the machine’s surrounding environment
- Subscribe to changes from the machine’s outside environment

In XState, the separation is divided between:

| Term    | Description             |
| ------- | ----------------------- |
| Config  | What the machine does   |
| Options | How the machine does it |

Below is an example where we describe in our config that when the machine first starts, it 'says hello', using the `sayHello` action.

```ts
const helloMachine = createMachine({
  /**
   * Below is an 'action' — we’ll
   * learn more about actions later
   */
  entry: ['sayHello'],
});
```

As a visualization, the config is readable. But the machine doesn’t _do_ anything yet.

**Options** let us pass an implementation for the `sayHello` action.

```ts
const helloMachine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['sayHello'],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

The separation between “what your code does” and “how your code does it” is powerful because it allows you to understand its purpose without requiring you to read through the implementation details.

## Option types

There are four types of options you can pass to your statechart.

### Guards

Guards allow you to check something before you proceed, enabling you to implement if/else logic in XState.

Below is an example of a guard:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

let iAmHappyAndIKnowIt = true;

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'notClappingHands',
    states: {
      notClappingHands: {
        on: {
          HEAR_MUSIC: {
            /**
             * Name the guard…
             */
            cond: 'ifYoureHappyAndYouKnowIt',
            target: 'clappingHands',
          },
        },
      },
      clappingHands: {},
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      /**
       * …then implement the guard.
       */
      ifYoureHappyAndYouKnowIt: () => {
        return iAmHappyAndIKnowIt;
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, the guard is activated when the machine is in the `notClappingHands` state and reaches the `HEAR_MUSIC` event. If the `ifYoureHappyAndYouKnowIt` guard is true, the machine will go to the `clappingHands` state.

### Actions

Actions allow you to perform simple actions, such as assigning to a variable or calling synchronous actions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    entry: ['sayHello'],
  },
  {
    actions: {
      sayHello: () => {
        console.log('Hello!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

In the example above, `sayHello` will be called when the machine is started.

### Actors

Actors are entities that have their own state and can send and receive events. Actors are useful for processes like:

- Subscribing to a websocket/DOM listener for updates
- Invoking a promise and waiting for it to resolve
- Uploading a file

We’ll revisit actors in more depth later. [Take a fast track to learn more about actors](/actions-and-actors/actors.mdx).

### Delays

Delays are used in XState to represent timers and intervals. We’ll revisit delays in more depth later. [Take a fast track to learn more about delays](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/after.mdx).

## Options API

You can specify machine options in several places. Firstly, you can set options inside the machine itself:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    // Set config here
  },
  {
    // Set options here:
    actions: {},
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {},
    guards: {},
    delays: {},
  },
);
```

Or, you can specify options later with a `.withConfig` call:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});

// ---cut---

machine.withConfig({
  actions: {},
  // `actors` in v5
  services: {},
  guards: {},
  delays: {},
});
```

## Summary

Options are how you make your machine _do_ things. They allow machines to keep control of the config and enable you to pass in options later.
