src/pages/privacy.mdx, before:

---
title: Privacy
image: share-image-privacy.png
description: 'The Stately privacy policy outlines how we collect, use, and protect your personal data when you use our platform.'
---

# Privacy policy

Last updated January 2024:

- Updated how we use OpenAI for [Stately AI](#stately-ai) features
- Updated “Pro” to “Premium” as we now have multiple Premium plans
- Added information on GitHub sync as part of our [authentication](#authentication) section
- Renamed “Database” section to “Storage” to reflect that we now also use Supabase to store your uploaded assets

## Analytics

We use Plausible Analytics to collect aggregated statistics about your visits to Stately’s websites. The statistics include information such as pageviews, visit duration, visitors’ countries and devices. The aggregated statistics have no way to identify individuals from that data, and no data about any specific individual.

[Plausible’s privacy information](https://plausible.io/privacy-focused-web-analytics).

We track how you use Stately Studio and use Mixpanel to analyze the activity data. With your consent in the Studio settings, we attribute your hashed user id to the activity data. Analyzing patterns in user activity helps us understand how you use our tools and how we might improve your experience.

[Mixpanel’s privacy information](https://mixpanel.com/legal/privacy-hub/).

## Survey

We use Google Forms for our surveys. Your survey responses are stored with Google. We do not collect any information about you except what you provide in your responses, and you’re not required to provide your email address unless you consent to further contact from us.

We use the survey responses to help research and develop our products, and to potentially contact respondents for future research. We will not share any of the survey answers, or your email address, with any third-parties.

If you would like us to delete your survey responses, please email jenny@stately.ai.

[Google’s privacy policy](https://policies.google.com/privacy).

## Storage

We use Supabase as a database for our platform. We use the database to store your profile information required for login (email), optional profile information (name, profile picture) as well as any data you save on our platform. We also use Supabase to store any assets you add to your projects. We do not use Supabase to collect any further information about you.

If you would like to delete your profile information from our database, please email support@stately.ai.

[Supabase’s privacy policy](https://supabase.io/privacy).

## Authentication

We use GitHub, Google, and Twitter for authentication so you can sign into our platform using their platforms. We do not use these providers to collect any information about you.

### GitHub Sync

We use [GitHub tokens](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/generating-a-user-access-token-for-a-github-app) to sync your GitHub repositories to your Stately projects when you connect a GitHub repo. We do not use GitHub to collect any information about you.

[GitHub’s privacy statement](https://docs.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement#github-privacy-statement).

## Hosting

We use GitHub to host our repositories and GitHub Pages to host our legacy documentation. We do not use GitHub to collect any information about you.

[GitHub’s privacy statement](https://docs.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement#github-privacy-statement).

We use Vercel to host:

- [stately.ai website](https://stately.ai)
- [our docs and blog](https:stately.ai/docs)
- our platform and API

Vercel collects activity logs which includes your user agent information to help us understand where we need to fix bugs. We do not use Vercel to collect any further information about you.

[Vercel’s privacy policy](https://vercel.com/legal/privacy-policy).

We use Amazon Web Services to host a microservice that generates preview images of public machines. We do not use AWS to collect any information about you.

## Videos and livestreams

We use YouTube to broadcast livestreams and host our videos. We do not use YouTube to collect any information about you.

[Google’s privacy policy](https://policies.google.com/privacy).

We use StreamYard to record and broadcast livestreams. You will only have access to StreamYard if you join us as a guest in the StreamYard studio. We do not use StreamYard to collect any information about you.

[StreamYard’s privacy policy](https://streamyard.com/resources/docs/privacy/index.html).

## Chat

We use Discord as a chat server for discussions about XState and Stately. We do not use Discord to collect any information about you.

[Discord’s privacy policy](https://discord.com/privacy).

## Search

We use Algolia search to:

- Index Stately Studio projects and machines
- Provide useful search results in Stately Studio based on your search keywords.
- Index our documentation content
- Provide useful search results in our documentation based on your search keywords.

We do not use Algolia to collect any information about you.

[Algolia’s privacy policy, relevant section: 9](https://www.algolia.com/policies/privacy/).

## Payment processing

We use Stripe to collect your payment information and accept payments. We do not store any of your payment information ourselves, or use Stripe to collect any information about you.

[Stripe’s privacy information](https://stripe.com/ie/privacy).

## Studio emails

We use Postmark to send you emails about your account and teams in the Stately Studio. We do not use your email address for any other purposes unless you have signed up to our [mailing list](#mailing-list). We do not use Postmark to collect any information about you.

[Postmark’s privacy policy](https://postmarkapp.com/privacy-policy).

## Mailing list

We use Crisp to host our mailing list. Your email address is securely stored with Crisp.

If you sign up for our mailing list, we will only use your email address to send you updates about Stately, or to request your feedback on Stately’s work. We will not send you spam and we will not share or sell your email address to any third-parties.

You can unsubscribe from our mailing list at any time using the unsubscribe link included in all of our emails.

[Crisp’s privacy policy](https://crisp.chat/en/privacy/).

## Bug tracking

We use Sentry to track bugs.

While using the Studio, we gather data about your actions and your operating system and browser, commonly referred to as the [user_agent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/User-Agent). This is the only personally-identifiable information we send to Sentry.

The actions we send to Sentry include copying nodes, moving edges, and similar events you can do in Stately Studio’s editor.

We use this information to detect and address any issues that may have been overlooked during our quality control process.

[Sentry’s privacy policy](https://sentry.io/privacy/).

## Connecting actors

We use Partykit for live connections between running actors.
We don’t send any personal data to Partykit.
We send machine configurations and events for the actors.

[Partykit’s privacy policy](https://partykit.io/privacy)

## Stately AI

We use OpenAI for Stately AI features including generating flows, generating summaries, and enhancing generated React apps. The Stately AI features are optional Premium features and we do not send any of your personal data to OpenAI. We only send your machine configurations back to OpenAI if you are modifying an existing flow.

[OpenAI’s privacy policy](https://openai.com/policies/privacy-policy)

## Support

We use Crisp to respond to Premium support emails. Your email address is securely stored with Crisp. We do not use your email address for any other purpose.

[Crisp’s privacy policy](https://crisp.chat/en/privacy/).

Commit message:

Add info about Figma tokens to privacy policy
Closes STA-6117

src/pages/privacy.mdx, after:

---
title: Privacy
image: share-image-privacy.png
description: 'The Stately privacy policy outlines how we collect, use, and protect your personal data when you use our platform.'
---

# Privacy policy

Last updated January 2024:

- Updated how we use OpenAI for [Stately AI](#stately-ai) features
- Updated “Pro” to “Premium” as we now have multiple Premium plans
- Added information on GitHub sync as part of our [authentication](#authentication) section
- Renamed “Database” section to “Storage” to reflect that we now also use Supabase to store your uploaded assets

## Analytics

We use Plausible Analytics to collect aggregated statistics about your visits to Stately’s websites. The statistics include information such as pageviews, visit duration, visitors’ countries and devices. The aggregated statistics have no way to identify individuals from that data, and no data about any specific individual.

[Plausible’s privacy information](https://plausible.io/privacy-focused-web-analytics).

We track how you use Stately Studio and use Mixpanel to analyze the activity data. With your consent in the Studio settings, we attribute your hashed user id to the activity data. Analyzing patterns in user activity helps us understand how you use our tools and how we might improve your experience.

[Mixpanel’s privacy information](https://mixpanel.com/legal/privacy-hub/).

## Survey

We use Google Forms for our surveys. Your survey responses are stored with Google. We do not collect any information about you except what you provide in your responses, and you’re not required to provide your email address unless you consent to further contact from us.

We use the survey responses to help research and develop our products, and to potentially contact respondents for future research. We will not share any of the survey answers, or your email address, with any third-parties.

If you would like us to delete your survey responses, please email jenny@stately.ai.

[Google’s privacy policy](https://policies.google.com/privacy).

## Storage

We use Supabase as a database for our platform. We use the database to store your profile information required for login (email), optional profile information (name, profile picture) as well as any data you save on our platform. We also use Supabase to store any assets you add to your projects. We do not use Supabase to collect any further information about you.

If you would like to delete your profile information from our database, please email support@stately.ai.

[Supabase’s privacy policy](https://supabase.io/privacy).

## Authentication

We use GitHub, Google, and Twitter for authentication so you can sign into our platform using their platforms. We do not use these providers to collect any information about you.

### GitHub Sync

We use [GitHub tokens](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/generating-a-user-access-token-for-a-github-app) to sync your GitHub repositories to your Stately projects when you connect a GitHub repo. We do not use GitHub to collect any information about you.

[GitHub’s privacy statement](https://docs.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement#github-privacy-statement).

### Figma Sync

We use [Figma tokens](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/8085703771159-Manage-personal-access-tokens) to sync your Figma frames when you embed Figma assets. We do not use Figma to collect any information about you.

[Figma’s privacy policy](https://www.figma.com/legal/privacy/).

## Hosting

We use GitHub to host our repositories and GitHub Pages to host our legacy documentation. We do not use GitHub to collect any information about you.

[GitHub’s privacy statement](https://docs.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement#github-privacy-statement).

We use Vercel to host:

- [stately.ai website](https://stately.ai)
- [our docs and blog](https:stately.ai/docs)
- our platform and API

Vercel collects activity logs which includes your user agent information to help us understand where we need to fix bugs. We do not use Vercel to collect any further information about you.

[Vercel’s privacy policy](https://vercel.com/legal/privacy-policy).

We use Amazon Web Services to host a microservice that generates preview images of public machines. We do not use AWS to collect any information about you.

## Videos and livestreams

We use YouTube to broadcast livestreams and host our videos. We do not use YouTube to collect any information about you.

[Google’s privacy policy](https://policies.google.com/privacy).

We use StreamYard to record and broadcast livestreams. You will only have access to StreamYard if you join us as a guest in the StreamYard studio. We do not use StreamYard to collect any information about you.

[StreamYard’s privacy policy](https://streamyard.com/resources/docs/privacy/index.html).

## Chat

We use Discord as a chat server for discussions about XState and Stately. We do not use Discord to collect any information about you.

[Discord’s privacy policy](https://discord.com/privacy).

## Search

We use Algolia search to:

- Index Stately Studio projects and machines
- Provide useful search results in Stately Studio based on your search keywords.
- Index our documentation content
- Provide useful search results in our documentation based on your search keywords.

We do not use Algolia to collect any information about you.

[Algolia’s privacy policy, relevant section: 9](https://www.algolia.com/policies/privacy/).

## Payment processing

We use Stripe to collect your payment information and accept payments. We do not store any of your payment information ourselves, or use Stripe to collect any information about you.

[Stripe’s privacy information](https://stripe.com/ie/privacy).

## Studio emails

We use Postmark to send you emails about your account and teams in the Stately Studio. We do not use your email address for any other purposes unless you have signed up to our [mailing list](#mailing-list). We do not use Postmark to collect any information about you.

[Postmark’s privacy policy](https://postmarkapp.com/privacy-policy).

## Mailing list

We use Crisp to host our mailing list. Your email address is securely stored with Crisp.

If you sign up for our mailing list, we will only use your email address to send you updates about Stately, or to request your feedback on Stately’s work. We will not send you spam and we will not share or sell your email address to any third-parties.

You can unsubscribe from our mailing list at any time using the unsubscribe link included in all of our emails.

[Crisp’s privacy policy](https://crisp.chat/en/privacy/).

## Bug tracking

We use Sentry to track bugs.

While using the Studio, we gather data about your actions and your operating system and browser, commonly referred to as the [user_agent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/User-Agent). This is the only personally-identifiable information we send to Sentry.

The actions we send to Sentry include copying nodes, moving edges, and similar events you can do in Stately Studio’s editor.

We use this information to detect and address any issues that may have been overlooked during our quality control process.

[Sentry’s privacy policy](https://sentry.io/privacy/).

## Connecting actors

We use Partykit for live connections between running actors.
We don’t send any personal data to Partykit.
We send machine configurations and events for the actors.

[Partykit’s privacy policy](https://partykit.io/privacy)

## Stately AI

We use OpenAI for Stately AI features including generating flows, generating summaries, and enhancing generated React apps. The Stately AI features are optional Premium features and we do not send any of your personal data to OpenAI. We only send your machine configurations back to OpenAI if you are modifying an existing flow.

[OpenAI’s privacy policy](https://openai.com/policies/privacy-policy)

## Support

We use Crisp to respond to Premium support emails. Your email address is securely stored with Crisp. We do not use your email address for any other purpose.

[Crisp’s privacy policy](https://crisp.chat/en/privacy/).
