blog/2024-01-15-introducing-stately-inspector/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Introducing Stately Inspector
description: 
authors: [david]
tags: [inspector, stately]
date: 2024-01-15
slug: 2024-01-15-stately-inspector
image: /blog/2024-01-15-stately-inspector.png
---

{/* TODO: intro */}

## What is Stately Inspector?

Stately Inspector is a tool that allows you to visually inspect the state of your application. It primarily works with frontend applications using XState, but it can work with backend code and code that uses any state management solution.

## Installing Stately Inspect

To inspect applications with Stately Inspector, install [Stately Inspect](https://github.com/statelyai/inspect) from npm via `@statelyai/inspect`:

```bash
npm install @statelyai/inspect
```

Then, import the relevant inspector creator into your app. This is used to create an inspector (e.g. a browser or websocket inspector) that you can use to either connect to XState actors and/or manually send inspection events to Stately Inspector:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';
// highlight-next-line
import { createBrowserInspector } from '@statelyai/inspect';
import { machine } from './machine';

// highlight-next-line
const inspector = createBrowserInspector();

// ...

const actor = createActor(machine, {
  // highlight-next-line
  inspect: inspector.inspect,
  // ... other actor options
});

actor.start();
```

Now when you run your app, you should see a new tab open in your browser that looks something like this:

{/* TODO: screenshot */}

## Sending Inspection Events

The `@statelyai/inspect` package will send inspection events to the connected Stately Inspector. There are currently 3 kinds of events sent:

- Actor creation events
- Actor-to-actor communication events
- Actor snapshot changes

When you pass in the `inspect` option to the actor options in XState's `createActor(machine, options)` function, it will automatically send all of these inspection events.

For usage with other state management solutions, you can manually send inspection events using the following methods:

- `inspector.actor(actor, snapshot, info)` - send actor creation events
- `inspector.event(actor, event, info)` - send actor-to-actor communication events
- `inspector.snapshot(actor, snapshot, info)` - send actor snapshot changes

```ts
import { createBrowserInspector } from '@statelyai/inspect';

const inspector = createBrowserInspector();

// Imagine a todo app...
inspector.actor('todos');

// When a todo is created
inspector.actor('todo-1', {
  context: { status: 'active' }
});

// When a user completes a todo
inspector.event('todo-1', { type: 'todo.complete' });

// When a todo changes
inspector.snapshot('todo-1', {
  context: { status: 'completed' }
});

// When the todos actor (not the user) sends an event to a todo
inspector.event('todo-1', { type: 'todo.update' }, {
  source: 'todos'
});

// ... etc.

```

The above is a contrived example demonstrating how you can instrument inspector events at any time from any part of your app. The 3 types of inspection events contain everything that Stately Inspector needs to automatically generate two kinds of real-time diagrams:

- **State machine diagrams** (if a state machine definition is provided)
- **Sequence diagrams**

{/* TODO: screenshot of state machine and sequence diagram, side-by-side */}

## Coming soon

The goal of Stately Inspector is to be a universal tool that enables you to visually inspect the state of any application, frontend or backend. Right now, it's optimized for XState (with `inspector.inspect`) or non-XState (with `inspector.actor(...)`, `inspector.event(...)`, `inspector.snapshot(...)`) state management solutions in frontend applications. We would love your feedback so that we can prioritize:

- **A websocket inspector creator**: inspect frontend and/or backend applications remotely)
- **Bidirectional communication**: send events from Stately Inspector to your live application
- **Middleware for popular libraries**: e.g. Redux, MobX, Zustand, and more
- **Sync with Stately Studio**: enrich inspected machines with information (layouts, colors, assets, annotations, etc.) from Stately Studio
- **Analytics**: view real-time analytics of flows in your application

{/* TODO: link to submit feedback */}

Commit message:

Add intro, ending, and tweak text

blog/2024-01-15-introducing-stately-inspector/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Introducing Stately Inspector
description: Stately Inspector is a tool that allows you to visually inspect the state of your application in real-time. It works with code that uses any state management solution.
authors: [david]
tags: [inspector, stately, xstate, actors, devtools]
date: 2024-01-15
slug: 2024-01-15-stately-inspector
image: /blog/2024-01-15-stately-inspector.png
---

One of the most popular features of our legacy Stately viz was its ability to inspect your app in real-time using the @xstate/inspect tools. We wanted to bring this functionality into a universal tool that enables you to visually inspect the state of any application, frontend or backend, with the visuals of Stately’s editor. So we built Stately Inspector.

{/* truncate */}

## What is Stately Inspector?

Stately Inspector is a tool that allows you to inspect your application’s state visually. It primarily works with frontend applications using XState but can also work with backend code and code that uses any state management solution.

[Watch a demo of Stately Inspector in our most recent office hours](https://www.youtube.com/live/-Jf9N-EaUx0?feature=shared&t=408):

<YouTube id="-Jf9N-EaUx0"/>

## Installing Stately Inspect

To inspect applications with Stately Inspector, install [Stately Inspect](https://github.com/statelyai/inspect) from npm via `@statelyai/inspect`:

```bash
npm install @statelyai/inspect
```

Then, import the relevant inspector creator into your app. The creator is used to create an inspector (e.g., a browser or WebSocket inspector) that you can use to either connect to XState actors and/or manually send inspection events to Stately Inspector:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';
// highlight-next-line
import { createBrowserInspector } from '@statelyai/inspect';
import { machine } from './machine';

// highlight-next-line
const inspector = createBrowserInspector();

// ...

const actor = createActor(machine, {
  // highlight-next-line
  inspect: inspector.inspect,
  // ... other actor options
});

actor.start();
```

Now, when you run your app, you should see a new tab open in your browser that looks something like this:

{/* TODO: screenshot */}

## Sending inspection events

The `@statelyai/inspect` package will send inspection events to the connected Stately Inspector. There are currently three kinds of events sent:

- Actor creation events
- Actor-to-actor communication events
- Actor snapshot changes

When you pass in the `inspect` option to the actor options in XState’s `createActor(machine, options)` function, it will automatically send all of these inspection events.

For usage with other state management solutions, you can manually send inspection events using the following methods:

- `inspector.actor(actor, snapshot, info)` - send actor creation events
- `inspector.event(actor, event, info)` - send actor-to-actor communication events
- `inspector.snapshot(actor, snapshot, info)` - send actor snapshot changes

```ts
import { createBrowserInspector } from '@statelyai/inspect';

const inspector = createBrowserInspector();

// Imagine a todo app...
inspector.actor('todos');

// When a todo is created
inspector.actor('todo-1', {
  context: { status: 'active' }
});

// When a user completes a todo
inspector.event('todo-1', { type: 'todo.complete' });

// When a todo changes
inspector.snapshot('todo-1', {
  context: { status: 'completed' }
});

// When the todos actor (not the user) sends an event to a todo
inspector.event('todo-1', { type: 'todo.update' }, {
  source: 'todos'
});

// ... etc.

```

The above is a contrived example demonstrating how you can instrument inspector events at any time from any part of your app. The three types of inspection events contain everything that Stately Inspector needs to generate two kinds of real-time diagrams automatically:

- **State machine diagrams** (if a state machine definition is provided)
- **Sequence diagrams**

{/* TODO: screenshot of state machine and sequence diagram, side-by-side */}

## Coming soon

The goal of Stately Inspector is to be a universal tool that enables you to visually inspect the state of any application, frontend or backend. Right now, it’s optimized for XState (with `inspector.inspect`) or non-XState (with `inspector.actor(...)`, `inspector.event(...)`, `inspector.snapshot(...)`) state management solutions in frontend applications. We would love your feedback so that we can prioritize:

- **A websocket inspector creator**: inspect frontend and/or backend applications remotely.
- **Bidirectional communication**: send events from Stately Inspector to your live application.
- **Middleware for popular libraries**: e.g., Redux, MobX, Zustand, and more.
- **Sync with Stately Studio**: enrich inspected machines with information (layouts, colors, assets, annotations, etc.) from Stately Studio.
- **Analytics**: view real-time analytics of flows in your application.

[Let us know your thoughts on our Discord server](https://discord.stately.ai) or [submit a feature request on our GitHub board](https://feedback.stately.ai). Want to be the first to know about upcoming features? Subscribe to our [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@Statelyai) or [follow us on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/statelyai/) to avoid missing our next office hours live stream.
