versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/running-machines/node.mdx, before:

---
title: Node
description: 'Patterns for long-running processes and async functions when running machines in Node.'
---

# Node

When running machines in Node, a few common patterns emerge.

## Long-running processes

The first pattern is running XState to coordinate a long-running process, for instance, a file watcher in a CLI (Command Line Interface):

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { watch } from 'chokidar';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waitingForChokidarToBeReady',
  states: {
    waitingForChokidarToBeReady: {
      on: {
        CHOKIDAR_READY: {
          target: 'chokidarReady',
        },
      },
    },
    chokidarReady: {
      entry: () => {
        console.log('Chokidar Ready!');
      },
    },
  },
});

const main = () => {
  const actor = interpret(machine).start();

  watch('./**').on('ready', () => {
    actor.send('CHOKIDAR_READY');
  });
};

main();
```

In the script above, we run our main actor by calling `interpret().start()` on the `machine`. We use [`chokidar`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chokidar), a file watcher, to watch over a set of files and then report that the watcher is ready to the actor. The actor then logs a message to the console.

XState is extremely powerful at managing long-running processes like this, where multiple event sources need to be coordinated. You could even extend the example above to handle a process, which [Gatsby](https://gatsbyjs.com) does for its build processing.

## Async functions

Lots of backend code relies on short-running processes, such as backend functions, especially in serverless contexts where code needs to boot up and shut down as fast as possible.

Much of this type of code relies on `async` functions:

```ts
const myFunc = async () => {};
```

The best pattern to use for async functions is `waitFor`, which allows you to `await` a state machine being in a particular state.

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { waitFor } from 'xstate/lib/waitFor';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  states: {
    pending: {
      after: {
        3000: {
          target: 'done',
        },
      },
    },
    done: {},
  },
});

const myFunc = async () => {
  const actor = interpret(machine).start();

  const doneState = await waitFor(actor, (state) => state.matches('done'));

  console.log(doneState.value); // 'done'
};
```

In the example above, the machine waits for three seconds before moving on to its `done` state, at which point the `await` will resolve, and the program will move on.

By default, `waitFor` will time out after 10 seconds if the desired state is not reached. You can customize this timeout by passing `timeout` in the options:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { waitFor } from 'xstate/lib/waitFor';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  states: {
    pending: {
      after: {
        3000: {
          target: 'done',
        },
      },
    },
    done: {},
  },
});

const myFunc = async () => {
  const actor = interpret(machine).start();

  const doneState = await waitFor(
    actor,
    (state) => state.matches('done'),
    // highlight-start
    {
      // 20 seconds in ms
      timeout: 20_000,
    },
    // highlight-end
  );
};
```

`waitFor` will also throw an error if the actor reaches a final state _before_ satisfying the condition. [Read more about final states](/xstate/states/final-states.mdx).

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/running-machines/node.mdx, after:

---
title: Node
description: 'Patterns for long-running processes and async functions when running machines in Node.'
---

# Node

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read the XState V5 docs](/docs/xstate).

:::

When running machines in Node, a few common patterns emerge.

## Long-running processes

The first pattern is running XState to coordinate a long-running process, for instance, a file watcher in a CLI (Command Line Interface):

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { watch } from 'chokidar';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waitingForChokidarToBeReady',
  states: {
    waitingForChokidarToBeReady: {
      on: {
        CHOKIDAR_READY: {
          target: 'chokidarReady',
        },
      },
    },
    chokidarReady: {
      entry: () => {
        console.log('Chokidar Ready!');
      },
    },
  },
});

const main = () => {
  const actor = interpret(machine).start();

  watch('./**').on('ready', () => {
    actor.send('CHOKIDAR_READY');
  });
};

main();
```

In the script above, we run our main actor by calling `interpret().start()` on the `machine`. We use [`chokidar`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chokidar), a file watcher, to watch over a set of files and then report that the watcher is ready to the actor. The actor then logs a message to the console.

XState is extremely powerful at managing long-running processes like this, where multiple event sources need to be coordinated. You could even extend the example above to handle a process, which [Gatsby](https://gatsbyjs.com) does for its build processing.

## Async functions

Lots of backend code relies on short-running processes, such as backend functions, especially in serverless contexts where code needs to boot up and shut down as fast as possible.

Much of this type of code relies on `async` functions:

```ts
const myFunc = async () => {};
```

The best pattern to use for async functions is `waitFor`, which allows you to `await` a state machine being in a particular state.

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { waitFor } from 'xstate/lib/waitFor';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  states: {
    pending: {
      after: {
        3000: {
          target: 'done',
        },
      },
    },
    done: {},
  },
});

const myFunc = async () => {
  const actor = interpret(machine).start();

  const doneState = await waitFor(actor, (state) => state.matches('done'));

  console.log(doneState.value); // 'done'
};
```

In the example above, the machine waits for three seconds before moving on to its `done` state, at which point the `await` will resolve, and the program will move on.

By default, `waitFor` will time out after 10 seconds if the desired state is not reached. You can customize this timeout by passing `timeout` in the options:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { waitFor } from 'xstate/lib/waitFor';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  states: {
    pending: {
      after: {
        3000: {
          target: 'done',
        },
      },
    },
    done: {},
  },
});

const myFunc = async () => {
  const actor = interpret(machine).start();

  const doneState = await waitFor(
    actor,
    (state) => state.matches('done'),
    // highlight-start
    {
      // 20 seconds in ms
      timeout: 20_000,
    },
    // highlight-end
  );
};
```

`waitFor` will also throw an error if the actor reaches a final state _before_ satisfying the condition. [Read more about final states](/xstate/states/final-states.mdx).
