versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/running-machines/react.mdx, before:

---
title: XState in React
description: 'You can use XState with React to coordinate local state, manage global state performantly, and consume data from other hooks.'
---

# XState in React

<!-- deps: ["running-machines-intro", "intro-to-state-api"] -->

You can use XState with React to:

- Coordinate local state
- Manage global state performantly
- Consume data from other hooks

We provide the official `@xstate/react` package to help you manage the integration. The package provides several hooks and helpers to get you started.

### Installation

Install the `@xstate/react` package [using npm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Understanding_client-side_tools/Command_line#adding_powerups):

```bash
npm install xstate @xstate/react
```

## useMachine hook

<!-- deps: ["xstate-react","running-machines-intro","intro-to-state-api"] -->

The simplest way to get started with interpreting actors in React is `useMachine`. `useMachine` is a [React hook](https://reactjs.org/hooks) that interprets the given `machine` and starts an actor that runs for the lifetime of the component.

```tsx
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useMachine } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({});

const Component = () => {
  const [
    // The current state of the actor
    state,
    // A function to send the machine events
    send,
    // The running actor - used for passing to `useActor`
    actor,
  ] = useMachine(machine);

  return null;
};
```

You can also pass machine options to the second argument of `useMachine`. These options will be kept up to date when the component re-renders, which means they can safely access variables inside the component’s scope:

```tsx
const useLoggedInUserId = (): string => '123';

import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useMachine } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: 'consoleLogUserId',
});

const Component = () => {
  const id = useLoggedInUserId();

  const [state, send] = useMachine(machine, {
    actions: {
      consoleLogUserId: () => {
        console.log(id);
      },
    },
  });

  return null;
};
```

## useInterpret hook

<!-- deps: ["xstate-react", "use-machine"] -->

`useMachine` automatically subscribes to the current state of the machine, which means every state update will result in a re-render of the component that calls it. This re-rendering isn’t always desirable.

`useInterpret` allows you to interpret a machine without subscribing to its updates, which means that by default, it won’t cause any re-rendering in the component.

```tsx
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({});

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  return null;
};
```

`useInterpret` accepts the same arguments as `useMachine`, and follows the same rules with `options`:

```tsx
const useLoggedInUserId = (): string => '123';

import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: 'consoleLogUserId',
});

const Component = () => {
  const id = useLoggedInUserId();

  const actor = useInterpret(machine, {
    actions: {
      consoleLogUserId: () => {
        console.log(id);
      },
    },
  });

  return null;
};
```

## useSelector

<!-- deps: ["use-interpret", "intro-to-state-api"] -->

You can use `useSelector` to subscribe to a machine created with `useInterpret` or `interpret`. `useSelector` gives you fine-grained control over when your components should re-render and is particularly valuable for good performance.

```tsx
import { createMachine, StateFrom } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret, useSelector } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'hovered',
  states: {
    hovered: {},
    notHovered: {},
  },
});

const selector = (state: StateFrom<typeof machine>) => state.matches('hovered');

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  const isHovered = useSelector(actor, selector);

  return null;
};
```

In the example above, the component will only re-render when the `isHovered` value changes from `true` to `false`.

Internally, `useSelector` compares the previous value (`prev`) and the next value (`next`) to determine whether a re-render is required. Strict equality is used for its default check: `prev === next`. If the check returns true, there will be no re-render.

You can customize the check by passing a `compare` function to `useSelector`:

```tsx
import { createMachine, StateFrom } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret, useSelector } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    numbers: [1, 2, 3],
  },
});

const getNumbers = (state: StateFrom<typeof machine>) => state.context.numbers;

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  const numbers = useSelector(actor, getNumbers, (prev, next) => {
    /**
     * Checks if 1,2,3 === 2,3,4
     */
    return prev.join() === next.join();
  });

  return null;
};
```

The compare function is needed in the example above because comparing two arrays by `[] === []` would _always_ result in a re-render.

## useActor

<!-- deps: ["xstate-react", "use-selector"] -->

Use `useActor` if you want to subscribe to _all_ updates to an actor from `useInterpret`:

```tsx
import { createMachine, StateFrom } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret, useActor } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'hovered',
  states: {
    hovered: {},
    notHovered: {},
  },
});

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  const [
    // The current state of the actor
    state,
    // A function to send the machine events
    send,
  ] = useActor(actor);

  const isHovered = state.matches('hovered');

  return null;
};
```

`useActor` subscribes to all state updates from the actor, providing a similar return type to `useMachine`.

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/running-machines/react.mdx, after:

---
title: XState in React
description: 'You can use XState with React to coordinate local state, manage global state performantly, and consume data from other hooks.'
---

# XState in React

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read more about using XState with React](/docs/xstate-react).

:::

You can use XState with React to:

- Coordinate local state
- Manage global state performantly
- Consume data from other hooks

We provide the official `@xstate/react` package to help you manage the integration. The package provides several hooks and helpers to get you started.

### Installation

Install the `@xstate/react` package [using npm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Understanding_client-side_tools/Command_line#adding_powerups):

```bash
npm install xstate @xstate/react
```

## useMachine hook

<!-- deps: ["xstate-react","running-machines-intro","intro-to-state-api"] -->

The simplest way to get started with interpreting actors in React is `useMachine`. `useMachine` is a [React hook](https://reactjs.org/hooks) that interprets the given `machine` and starts an actor that runs for the lifetime of the component.

```tsx
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useMachine } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({});

const Component = () => {
  const [
    // The current state of the actor
    state,
    // A function to send the machine events
    send,
    // The running actor - used for passing to `useActor`
    actor,
  ] = useMachine(machine);

  return null;
};
```

You can also pass machine options to the second argument of `useMachine`. These options will be kept up to date when the component re-renders, which means they can safely access variables inside the component’s scope:

```tsx
const useLoggedInUserId = (): string => '123';

import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useMachine } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: 'consoleLogUserId',
});

const Component = () => {
  const id = useLoggedInUserId();

  const [state, send] = useMachine(machine, {
    actions: {
      consoleLogUserId: () => {
        console.log(id);
      },
    },
  });

  return null;
};
```

## useInterpret hook

<!-- deps: ["xstate-react", "use-machine"] -->

`useMachine` automatically subscribes to the current state of the machine, which means every state update will result in a re-render of the component that calls it. This re-rendering isn’t always desirable.

`useInterpret` allows you to interpret a machine without subscribing to its updates, which means that by default, it won’t cause any re-rendering in the component.

```tsx
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({});

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  return null;
};
```

`useInterpret` accepts the same arguments as `useMachine`, and follows the same rules with `options`:

```tsx
const useLoggedInUserId = (): string => '123';

import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: 'consoleLogUserId',
});

const Component = () => {
  const id = useLoggedInUserId();

  const actor = useInterpret(machine, {
    actions: {
      consoleLogUserId: () => {
        console.log(id);
      },
    },
  });

  return null;
};
```

## useSelector

<!-- deps: ["use-interpret", "intro-to-state-api"] -->

You can use `useSelector` to subscribe to a machine created with `useInterpret` or `interpret`. `useSelector` gives you fine-grained control over when your components should re-render and is particularly valuable for good performance.

```tsx
import { createMachine, StateFrom } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret, useSelector } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'hovered',
  states: {
    hovered: {},
    notHovered: {},
  },
});

const selector = (state: StateFrom<typeof machine>) => state.matches('hovered');

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  const isHovered = useSelector(actor, selector);

  return null;
};
```

In the example above, the component will only re-render when the `isHovered` value changes from `true` to `false`.

Internally, `useSelector` compares the previous value (`prev`) and the next value (`next`) to determine whether a re-render is required. Strict equality is used for its default check: `prev === next`. If the check returns true, there will be no re-render.

You can customize the check by passing a `compare` function to `useSelector`:

```tsx
import { createMachine, StateFrom } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret, useSelector } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    numbers: [1, 2, 3],
  },
});

const getNumbers = (state: StateFrom<typeof machine>) => state.context.numbers;

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  const numbers = useSelector(actor, getNumbers, (prev, next) => {
    /**
     * Checks if 1,2,3 === 2,3,4
     */
    return prev.join() === next.join();
  });

  return null;
};
```

The compare function is needed in the example above because comparing two arrays by `[] === []` would _always_ result in a re-render.

## useActor

<!-- deps: ["xstate-react", "use-selector"] -->

Use `useActor` if you want to subscribe to _all_ updates to an actor from `useInterpret`:

```tsx
import { createMachine, StateFrom } from 'xstate';
import { useInterpret, useActor } from '@xstate/react';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'hovered',
  states: {
    hovered: {},
    notHovered: {},
  },
});

const Component = () => {
  const actor = useInterpret(machine);

  const [
    // The current state of the actor
    state,
    // A function to send the machine events
    send,
  ] = useActor(actor);

  const isHovered = state.matches('hovered');

  return null;
};
```

`useActor` subscribes to all state updates from the actor, providing a similar return type to `useMachine`.
