versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/model-based-testing/assertions.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Assertions'
description: 'Model-based testing with XState: How to use the setup and assert pattern when writing tests. Including examples.'
---

# Assertions

If you’ve done testing before, you might be familiar with the **setup, then assert** pattern for writing tests:

1. **Setup** to get the app into the desired state.
2. **Assert** by checking the app is in the correct state.

The following example shows a whole test for a function that adds a user to a database:

```js
// PSEUDOCODE

describe('addUserToDb', () => {
  it('Should add a user to a database', async () => {
    // SETUP

    // Clear the database before each test
    await testUtils.clearDatabase();

    // Run the function we’re testing
    await addUserToDb({
      name: 'Matt',
    });

    // ASSERT

    // Ensure that the user exists
    await testUtils.ensureUserExistsInDb({
      name: 'Matt',
    });
  });
});
```

The test above follows the **setup** then **assert** steps:

1. **Setup**: Clear the database, then call the `addUserToDb` function we’re testing.
2. **Assert**: Check the app is in the correct state with `ensureUserExistsInDb`.

### Setup

You have two main options to run test setup in `@xstate/test`.

### Setup before each test path

If your setup needs to run _before each test path_, run the setup just before calling `path.test()`:

```js
const paths = model.getPaths();

describe('My model', () => {
  paths.forEach((path) => {
    it(path.description, () => {
      /**
       * Run any setup that needs to happen
       * before each test
       */

      // Run the test
      path.testSync({
        states: {},
        events: {},
      });

      /**
       * Run any teardown that needs to
       * happen after each test
       */
    });
  });
});
```

### Setup during a test

If your setup needs to happen _during_ a test, you pass an implementation to an event. The following example tests a button. The button’s text begins as ‘pending,’ but the text turns into ‘complete’ after the button is clicked.

```js {17-21}
const machine = createTestMachine({
  initial: 'buttonIsPending',
  states: {
    buttonIsPending: {
      on: {
        CLICK: 'buttonIsComplete',
      },
    },
    buttonIsComplete: {},
  },
});

createTestModel(machine)
  .getPaths()
  .forEach((path) => {
    it(path.description, () => {
      path.testSync({
        events: {
          CLICK: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').click();
          },
        },
      });
    });
  });
```

When the `testModel` wants to know how to implement the `CLICK` event, it looks inside `events` and runs the function. The result is that the model knows how to setup the app in _each state_:

- The test model knows how to setup the button in the `buttonIsPending` state as it’s the machine’s initial state.
- The test model knows how to setup the `buttonIsComplete` state by running the `CLICK` event.

### Assert

Once your model can set up your app in each state, you should _assert_ that your app is actually in that state. You can do this by passing `states` to `path.test`:

```js {10-23}
createTestModel(machine)
  .getPaths()
  .forEach((path) => {
    it(path.description, () => {
      path.testSync({
        events: {
          CLICK: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').click();
          },
        },
        states: {
          buttonIsPending: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').should('have.text', 'pending');
          },
          buttonIsComplete: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').should('have.text', 'complete');
          },
        },
      });
    });
  });
```

The test model can now _ensure_ that the app is in the state as described by the machine.

This approach is a good general guide for testing with `@xstate/test`:

- **Run assertions in states**
- **Run setup in events**, or before/after `path.test`.

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/model-based-testing/assertions.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Assertions'
description: 'Model-based testing with XState: How to use the setup and assert pattern when writing tests. Including examples.'
---

# Assertions

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about testing in XState V5](/docs/testing).

:::

If you’ve done testing before, you might be familiar with the **setup, then assert** pattern for writing tests:

1. **Setup** to get the app into the desired state.
2. **Assert** by checking the app is in the correct state.

The following example shows a whole test for a function that adds a user to a database:

```js
// PSEUDOCODE

describe('addUserToDb', () => {
  it('Should add a user to a database', async () => {
    // SETUP

    // Clear the database before each test
    await testUtils.clearDatabase();

    // Run the function we’re testing
    await addUserToDb({
      name: 'Matt',
    });

    // ASSERT

    // Ensure that the user exists
    await testUtils.ensureUserExistsInDb({
      name: 'Matt',
    });
  });
});
```

The test above follows the **setup** then **assert** steps:

1. **Setup**: Clear the database, then call the `addUserToDb` function we’re testing.
2. **Assert**: Check the app is in the correct state with `ensureUserExistsInDb`.

### Setup

You have two main options to run test setup in `@xstate/test`.

### Setup before each test path

If your setup needs to run _before each test path_, run the setup just before calling `path.test()`:

```js
const paths = model.getPaths();

describe('My model', () => {
  paths.forEach((path) => {
    it(path.description, () => {
      /**
       * Run any setup that needs to happen
       * before each test
       */

      // Run the test
      path.testSync({
        states: {},
        events: {},
      });

      /**
       * Run any teardown that needs to
       * happen after each test
       */
    });
  });
});
```

### Setup during a test

If your setup needs to happen _during_ a test, you pass an implementation to an event. The following example tests a button. The button’s text begins as ‘pending,’ but the text turns into ‘complete’ after the button is clicked.

```js {17-21}
const machine = createTestMachine({
  initial: 'buttonIsPending',
  states: {
    buttonIsPending: {
      on: {
        CLICK: 'buttonIsComplete',
      },
    },
    buttonIsComplete: {},
  },
});

createTestModel(machine)
  .getPaths()
  .forEach((path) => {
    it(path.description, () => {
      path.testSync({
        events: {
          CLICK: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').click();
          },
        },
      });
    });
  });
```

When the `testModel` wants to know how to implement the `CLICK` event, it looks inside `events` and runs the function. The result is that the model knows how to setup the app in _each state_:

- The test model knows how to setup the button in the `buttonIsPending` state as it’s the machine’s initial state.
- The test model knows how to setup the `buttonIsComplete` state by running the `CLICK` event.

### Assert

Once your model can set up your app in each state, you should _assert_ that your app is actually in that state. You can do this by passing `states` to `path.test`:

```js {10-23}
createTestModel(machine)
  .getPaths()
  .forEach((path) => {
    it(path.description, () => {
      path.testSync({
        events: {
          CLICK: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').click();
          },
        },
        states: {
          buttonIsPending: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').should('have.text', 'pending');
          },
          buttonIsComplete: () => {
            cy.findByRole('button').should('have.text', 'complete');
          },
        },
      });
    });
  });
```

The test model can now _ensure_ that the app is in the state as described by the machine.

This approach is a good general guide for testing with `@xstate/test`:

- **Run assertions in states**
- **Run setup in events**, or before/after `path.test`.
