versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/model-based-testing/test-paths.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Test paths'
description: 'Model-based testing with XState: Understanding test paths, including state, event, and transition coverage, multiple paths and condensing to a single path.'
---

# Test paths

`@xstate/test` generates _test paths_ that it walks through to execute your tests. Knowing how these paths are generated will make your tests more predictable.

## Coverage

The following example models a checkbox:

```ts
import { createTestMachine } from '@xstate/test';

const machine = createTestMachine({
  initial: 'notChecked',
  states: {
    notChecked: {
      on: {
        CLICK: 'checked',
      },
    },
    checked: {
      on: {
        CLICK: 'notChecked',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

You could take a few different approaches to ensure _everything_ in this machine works:

### State coverage

The first approach is to ensure full coverage of **states**, where you would want to test:

1. When `checked` is reached, the checkbox is displaying a checkbox.
2. When `notChecked` is reached, the checkbox is NOT displaying a checkbox.

### Event coverage

State coverage is a good start, but we also want to ensure all the **events** are working. To do this, we can add a new test:

1. Ensure that `CLICK` changes the checkbox.

Putting these tests together, you’d end up with a single test path:

1. Assert we’re in the `notChecked` state.
2. Run the `CLICK` event.
3. Assert we’re in the `checked` state.

### Transition coverage

The test path above feels complete, but it’s not quite there. We now know that clicking the checkbox can change it from `notChecked` to `checked`. But we _don’t_ know that the same will happen when we go the other way! That means our full test should be:

1. Assert we’re in the `notChecked` state.
2. Run the `CLICK` event.
3. Assert we’re in the `checked` state.
4. Run the `CLICK` event.
5. Assert we’re in the `notChecked` state.

In `@xstate/test`, we achieve the test path above by checking all **transitions** are covered, which means you get full coverage out of the box.

## Multiple paths

Test setup can be expensive, whether you’re loading up a browser or just setting up a database. @xstate/test will speed up your tests by attempting to walk through your test model in as few paths as possible.

The following example models a login form:

```ts
import { createTestMachine } from "@xstate/test";

const loginMachine = createTestMachine({
  initial: "showingLoginForm",
  states: {
    showingLoginForm: {
      on: {
        SUBMIT_VALID_FORM: 'loggedIn',
        SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM: 'passwordInvalid',
      }
    },
    loggedIn: {}
    passwordInvalid: {},
  },
});
```

This example would generate two test paths:

```txt
showingLoginForm -> SUBMIT_VALID_FORM -> loggedIn
showingLoginForm -> SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM -> passwordInvalid
```

Two test paths are generated because the test model can’t transition away from the `loggedIn` state or the `passwordInvalid` state.

### Condensing to a single path

If we were to model the machine slightly differently, the test model would generate a single path:

```ts {12-14}
import { createTestMachine } from "@xstate/test";

const loginMachine = createTestMachine({
  initial: "showingLoginForm",
  states: {
    showingLoginForm: {
      on: {
        SUBMIT_VALID_FORM: 'loggedIn',
        SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM: 'passwordInvalid',
      }
    },
    loggedIn: {
      on: {
        LOG_OUT: 'showingLoginForm'
      }
    }
    passwordInvalid: {},
  },
});
```

In the example above, we’ve added a `LOG_OUT` transition to `loggedIn`, which means the test model can navigate away from the `loggedIn` state. Now, the test model will run a single path:

```txt
showingLoginForm
  -> SUBMIT_VALID_FORM -> loggedIn
  -> LOG_OUT -> showingLoginForm
  -> SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM -> passwordInvalid
```

The test above requires less setup while also testing more behavior.

**Note**: we don’t necessarily recommend running _fewer_ test paths, but understanding this behavior is useful when using @xstate/test.

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/model-based-testing/test-paths.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Test paths'
description: 'Model-based testing with XState: Understanding test paths, including state, event, and transition coverage, multiple paths and condensing to a single path.'
---

# Test paths

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about testing in XState V5](/docs/testing).

:::

`@xstate/test` generates _test paths_ that it walks through to execute your tests. Knowing how these paths are generated will make your tests more predictable.

## Coverage

The following example models a checkbox:

```ts
import { createTestMachine } from '@xstate/test';

const machine = createTestMachine({
  initial: 'notChecked',
  states: {
    notChecked: {
      on: {
        CLICK: 'checked',
      },
    },
    checked: {
      on: {
        CLICK: 'notChecked',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

You could take a few different approaches to ensure _everything_ in this machine works:

### State coverage

The first approach is to ensure full coverage of **states**, where you would want to test:

1. When `checked` is reached, the checkbox is displaying a checkbox.
2. When `notChecked` is reached, the checkbox is NOT displaying a checkbox.

### Event coverage

State coverage is a good start, but we also want to ensure all the **events** are working. To do this, we can add a new test:

1. Ensure that `CLICK` changes the checkbox.

Putting these tests together, you’d end up with a single test path:

1. Assert we’re in the `notChecked` state.
2. Run the `CLICK` event.
3. Assert we’re in the `checked` state.

### Transition coverage

The test path above feels complete, but it’s not quite there. We now know that clicking the checkbox can change it from `notChecked` to `checked`. But we _don’t_ know that the same will happen when we go the other way! That means our full test should be:

1. Assert we’re in the `notChecked` state.
2. Run the `CLICK` event.
3. Assert we’re in the `checked` state.
4. Run the `CLICK` event.
5. Assert we’re in the `notChecked` state.

In `@xstate/test`, we achieve the test path above by checking all **transitions** are covered, which means you get full coverage out of the box.

## Multiple paths

Test setup can be expensive, whether you’re loading up a browser or just setting up a database. @xstate/test will speed up your tests by attempting to walk through your test model in as few paths as possible.

The following example models a login form:

```ts
import { createTestMachine } from "@xstate/test";

const loginMachine = createTestMachine({
  initial: "showingLoginForm",
  states: {
    showingLoginForm: {
      on: {
        SUBMIT_VALID_FORM: 'loggedIn',
        SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM: 'passwordInvalid',
      }
    },
    loggedIn: {}
    passwordInvalid: {},
  },
});
```

This example would generate two test paths:

```txt
showingLoginForm -> SUBMIT_VALID_FORM -> loggedIn
showingLoginForm -> SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM -> passwordInvalid
```

Two test paths are generated because the test model can’t transition away from the `loggedIn` state or the `passwordInvalid` state.

### Condensing to a single path

If we were to model the machine slightly differently, the test model would generate a single path:

```ts {12-14}
import { createTestMachine } from "@xstate/test";

const loginMachine = createTestMachine({
  initial: "showingLoginForm",
  states: {
    showingLoginForm: {
      on: {
        SUBMIT_VALID_FORM: 'loggedIn',
        SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM: 'passwordInvalid',
      }
    },
    loggedIn: {
      on: {
        LOG_OUT: 'showingLoginForm'
      }
    }
    passwordInvalid: {},
  },
});
```

In the example above, we’ve added a `LOG_OUT` transition to `loggedIn`, which means the test model can navigate away from the `loggedIn` state. Now, the test model will run a single path:

```txt
showingLoginForm
  -> SUBMIT_VALID_FORM -> loggedIn
  -> LOG_OUT -> showingLoginForm
  -> SUBMIT_INVALID_FORM -> passwordInvalid
```

The test above requires less setup while also testing more behavior.

**Note**: we don’t necessarily recommend running _fewer_ test paths, but understanding this behavior is useful when using @xstate/test.
