versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/advanced-transitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced transitions
---

# Advanced transitions

Parent and child states offer more opportunities for various types of transitions. You can transition from any state to any other state. XState has a few different syntaxes to help you out.

## Transitioning to a node’s own children

<!-- deps: ["states", "parent-and-child-states"] -->

Use the `.target` syntax to transition to a child state from a parent state.

The following machine uses the `.target` syntax for `.hovered`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'inactive',
  on: {
    HOVER: '.hovered',
  },
  states: {
    inactive: {},
    hovered: {},
    visited: {},
  },
});
```

Whichever state the machine is in, whenever it receives a `HOVER` event, it’ll transition to the `hovered` state.

## Transitioning to another node’s children

<!-- deps: ["states", "parent-and-child-states"] -->

Transition directly into a node’s children using the `a.b` syntax.

The following machine uses the `a.b` syntax for `.hovered`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'inactive',
  states: {
    inactive: {
      on: {
        HOVER: 'active.hovered',
      },
    },
    active: {
      initial: 'focused',
      states: {
        focused: {},
        hovered: {},
      },
    },
  },
});
```

In the example above, the machine transitions directly to `active.hovered` when the `HOVER` event is received in state `inactive`.

The `initial` state of `focused` inside `active` is ignored.

## Transitioning to any node

<!-- deps: ["parent-and-child-states","transitions-and-events","targeting-children","targeting-children-of-siblings"] -->

If you want to transition to _any_ state:

1. Give the state node an `id`, for example, `myState`
2. Target the state node with a `#` prefix: `#myState`

The approach above works for transitioning to any state node from any state node, so it’s a useful trick if you can’t target a state with the `.a` or `a.b` syntaxes.

The example below shows the `paused` state with an `id` of `playerPaused` and that `id` targeted using `#playerPaused`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const musicMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'playing',
  states: {
    playing: {
      initial: 'playingTrackOne',
      states: {
        playingTrackOne: {
          on: {
            PAUSE: {
              target: '#playerPaused',
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
    paused: {
      id: 'playerPaused',
    },
  },
});
```

You can also give the root of your machine an `id` and combine the use of the root machine’s `id` with the `a.b` syntax.

The example below shows the machine’s root with an `id` of `player` and the `paused` state targeted using `#player.paused`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const musicMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'player',
  initial: 'playing',
  states: {
    playing: {
      initial: 'playingTrackOne',
      states: {
        playingTrackOne: {
          on: {
            PAUSE: {
              target: '#player.paused',
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
    paused: {},
  },
});
```

Combining a machine’s root `id` with the use of the `a.b` syntax can help you reduce the number of state `id`s required.

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/advanced-transitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced transitions
---

# Advanced transitions

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about transitions in XState V5](/docs/transitions).

:::

Parent and child states offer more opportunities for various types of transitions. You can transition from any state to any other state. XState has a few different syntaxes to help you out.

## Transitioning to a node’s own children

Use the `.target` syntax to transition to a child state from a parent state.

The following machine uses the `.target` syntax for `.hovered`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'inactive',
  on: {
    HOVER: '.hovered',
  },
  states: {
    inactive: {},
    hovered: {},
    visited: {},
  },
});
```

Whichever state the machine is in, whenever it receives a `HOVER` event, it’ll transition to the `hovered` state.

## Transitioning to another node’s children

Transition directly into a node’s children using the `a.b` syntax.

The following machine uses the `a.b` syntax for `.hovered`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'inactive',
  states: {
    inactive: {
      on: {
        HOVER: 'active.hovered',
      },
    },
    active: {
      initial: 'focused',
      states: {
        focused: {},
        hovered: {},
      },
    },
  },
});
```

In the example above, the machine transitions directly to `active.hovered` when the `HOVER` event is received in state `inactive`.

The `initial` state of `focused` inside `active` is ignored.

## Transitioning to any node

If you want to transition to _any_ state:

1. Give the state node an `id`, for example, `myState`
2. Target the state node with a `#` prefix: `#myState`

The approach above works for transitioning to any state node from any state node, so it’s a useful trick if you can’t target a state with the `.a` or `a.b` syntaxes.

The example below shows the `paused` state with an `id` of `playerPaused` and that `id` targeted using `#playerPaused`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const musicMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'playing',
  states: {
    playing: {
      initial: 'playingTrackOne',
      states: {
        playingTrackOne: {
          on: {
            PAUSE: {
              target: '#playerPaused',
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
    paused: {
      id: 'playerPaused',
    },
  },
});
```

You can also give the root of your machine an `id` and combine the use of the root machine’s `id` with the `a.b` syntax.

The example below shows the machine’s root with an `id` of `player` and the `paused` state targeted using `#player.paused`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const musicMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'player',
  initial: 'playing',
  states: {
    playing: {
      initial: 'playingTrackOne',
      states: {
        playingTrackOne: {
          on: {
            PAUSE: {
              target: '#player.paused',
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
    paused: {},
  },
});
```

Combining a machine’s root `id` with the use of the `a.b` syntax can help you reduce the number of state `id`s required.
