versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/final-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Final states
---

# Final states

When a machine reaches the [final state](../../states/final-states.mdx), it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

:::studio

[Read more about how to use final states in the Stately Studio](../../states/final-states.mdx).

:::

To indicate that a state node is final, set its `type` property to `final`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      after: {
        4000: 'stopped',
      },
    },
    stopped: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});
```

The machine above will wait for 4 seconds and then stop.

When a machine reaches its final state, several things happen:

- The machine stops being able to receive events
- Any running timers/actors inside the machine are canceled and cleaned up

Final states give you the option for an idiomatic way of cleaning up your machine.

## Composing parent and final states

<!-- deps: ["final-states","parent-states","transitions-and-events"] -->

Final states can be used with parent states to make elegant, modular statecharts.

Inside a parent state, reaching a final child state node will fire a `done` event back to the machine. The machine can listen for the `done` event by declaring `onDone` on the state:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'makingCoffee',
  states: {
    makingCoffee: {
      initial: 'boilingWater',
      states: {
        boilingWater: {
          on: {
            WATER_BOILED: {
              target: 'pouringWaterThroughPod',
            },
          },
        },
        pouringWaterThroughPod: {
          on: {
            WATER_POURED: {
              target: 'complete',
            },
          },
        },
        complete: {
          type: 'final',
        },
      },
      onDone: {
        target: 'coffeeMade',
      },
    },
    coffeeMade: {},
  },
});
```

The machine above has two main states - `makingCoffee` and `coffeeMade`. `makingCoffee` has several sub-steps which end up in a `complete` state. When the machine reaches the `complete` state, it fires a `done` event, meaning the `makingCoffee` state is complete.

Because the machine is listening for `onDone` on `makingCoffee`, the machine then transitions to `coffeeMade`.

Using `onDone` can make large statecharts easier to understand. The example above clearly shows that the overall “story” of the machine is that it makes coffee, then the coffee is done. If you need to know how the coffee is made, you can dive into the details of the `makingCoffee` state.

### `onDone` cannot be defined on the machine’s root

The `onDone` transition cannot be defined on the machine’s root because `onDone` is a transition on a `'done.state.*'` event, and when a machine reaches its final state, it can no longer accept any events.

## `state.done`

<!-- deps: ["intro-to-state-api", "final-states"] -->

When running a machine, you can check `state.done` to find out if an actor has reached its final state.

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const answeringMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'unanswered',
  states: {
    unanswered: {
      on: {
        ANSWER: { target: 'answered' },
      },
    },
    answered: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});

const actor = interpret(answeringMachine).start();

actor.send({
  type: 'ANSWER',
});

actor.state.done; // true
```

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/final-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Final states
---

# Final states

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about final states in XState V5](/docs/final-states).

:::

When a machine reaches the [final state](../../states/final-states.mdx), it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

:::studio

[Read more about how to use final states in the Stately Studio](../../states/final-states.mdx).

:::

To indicate that a state node is final, set its `type` property to `final`:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      after: {
        4000: 'stopped',
      },
    },
    stopped: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});
```

The machine above will wait for 4 seconds and then stop.

When a machine reaches its final state, several things happen:

- The machine stops being able to receive events
- Any running timers/actors inside the machine are canceled and cleaned up

Final states give you the option for an idiomatic way of cleaning up your machine.

## Composing parent and final states

<!-- deps: ["final-states","parent-states","transitions-and-events"] -->

Final states can be used with parent states to make elegant, modular statecharts.

Inside a parent state, reaching a final child state node will fire a `done` event back to the machine. The machine can listen for the `done` event by declaring `onDone` on the state:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'makingCoffee',
  states: {
    makingCoffee: {
      initial: 'boilingWater',
      states: {
        boilingWater: {
          on: {
            WATER_BOILED: {
              target: 'pouringWaterThroughPod',
            },
          },
        },
        pouringWaterThroughPod: {
          on: {
            WATER_POURED: {
              target: 'complete',
            },
          },
        },
        complete: {
          type: 'final',
        },
      },
      onDone: {
        target: 'coffeeMade',
      },
    },
    coffeeMade: {},
  },
});
```

The machine above has two main states - `makingCoffee` and `coffeeMade`. `makingCoffee` has several sub-steps which end up in a `complete` state. When the machine reaches the `complete` state, it fires a `done` event, meaning the `makingCoffee` state is complete.

Because the machine is listening for `onDone` on `makingCoffee`, the machine then transitions to `coffeeMade`.

Using `onDone` can make large statecharts easier to understand. The example above clearly shows that the overall “story” of the machine is that it makes coffee, then the coffee is done. If you need to know how the coffee is made, you can dive into the details of the `makingCoffee` state.

### `onDone` cannot be defined on the machine’s root

The `onDone` transition cannot be defined on the machine’s root because `onDone` is a transition on a `'done.state.*'` event, and when a machine reaches its final state, it can no longer accept any events.

## `state.done`

<!-- deps: ["intro-to-state-api", "final-states"] -->

When running a machine, you can check `state.done` to find out if an actor has reached its final state.

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const answeringMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'unanswered',
  states: {
    unanswered: {
      on: {
        ANSWER: { target: 'answered' },
      },
    },
    answered: {
      type: 'final',
    },
  },
});

const actor = interpret(answeringMachine).start();

actor.send({
  type: 'ANSWER',
});

actor.state.done; // true
```
