versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/in-state-guards.mdx, before:

---
title: In-state guards
---

# In-state guards

<!-- deps: ["guards","parallel-states","transitioning-to-nodes-by-id","actions"] -->

You can check if the machine is in a certain state using an `in` property on a transition. The `in` property takes a state ID as an argument and returns `true` if that state node is active in the current state, which can be useful in parallel states.

In the example below, when the machine receives the `LOG_WHEN_ACTIVE` event, we check if the machine is in the `active` state, specified by id, then `logIsActive`.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const lightMachine = createMachine(
  {
    type: 'parallel',
    states: {
      toggle: {
        initial: 'inactive',
        states: {
          inactive: {
            on: {
              TOGGLE: 'active',
            },
          },
          active: {
            id: 'active',
            on: {
              TOGGLE: 'inactive',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      logger: {
        on: {
          LOG_WHEN_ACTIVE: {
            in: '#active',
            actions: 'logIsActive',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logIsActive: () => {
        console.log('Active!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

### Combining `cond` and `in`

You can combine a `cond` with an `in` property. Both the `cond` and the `in` will need to resolve to `true` for the machine to transition.

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/in-state-guards.mdx, after:

---
title: In-state guards
---

# In-state guards

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about in-state guards in XState V5](/docs/guards#in-state-guards).

:::

You can check if the machine is in a certain state using an `in` property on a transition. The `in` property takes a state ID as an argument and returns `true` if that state node is active in the current state, which can be useful in parallel states.

In the example below, when the machine receives the `LOG_WHEN_ACTIVE` event, we check if the machine is in the `active` state, specified by id, then `logIsActive`.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const lightMachine = createMachine(
  {
    type: 'parallel',
    states: {
      toggle: {
        initial: 'inactive',
        states: {
          inactive: {
            on: {
              TOGGLE: 'active',
            },
          },
          active: {
            id: 'active',
            on: {
              TOGGLE: 'inactive',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      logger: {
        on: {
          LOG_WHEN_ACTIVE: {
            in: '#active',
            actions: 'logIsActive',
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      logIsActive: () => {
        console.log('Active!');
      },
    },
  },
);
```

### Combining `cond` and `in`

You can combine a `cond` with an `in` property. Both the `cond` and the `in` will need to resolve to `true` for the machine to transition.
