versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/other-state-attributes.mdx, before:

---
title: Other state attributes
---

# Other state attributes

States can have various other attributes, most of which are useful for narrower cases.

## State tags

<!-- deps: ["parent-and-child-states", "intro-to-state-api"] -->

State nodes can have **tags**, a list of strings that help describe the state node. Tags can be useful when categorizing different state nodes. For example, you can signify which state nodes represent “loading data” using a `"loading"` tag and determine if a state contains those tagged state nodes with `state.hasTag(tag)`:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        FETCH: 'loadingUser',
      },
    },
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    loadingFriends: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    editing: {},
  },
});

const actor = interpret(machine).start();

actor.state.hasTag('loading'); // false

actor.send('FETCH');

actor.state.hasTag('loading'); // true
```

Using tags can help you write more concise code. Instead of matching each actor individually:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        FETCH: 'loadingUser',
      },
    },
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    loadingFriends: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    editing: {},
  },
});

const actor = interpret(machine).start();

const isLoading =
  actor.state.matches('loadingUser') || actor.state.matches('loadingFriends');
```

You can group the actors by tag:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        FETCH: 'loadingUser',
      },
    },
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    loadingFriends: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    editing: {},
  },
});

const actor = interpret(machine).start();

const isLoading = actor.state.hasTag('loading');
```

### Using tags in Stately Studio

You can add tags to states and events in Stately Studio.

First, select the state or event you want to tag.

#### On the canvas

1. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
2. Choose <Tag size={18} /> **Tag** from the menu to add a tag block.
3. Write your tag’s name in the tag’s text input.
4. Use the <PlusSquare size={18} /> plus icon button alongside your recent tag to add more tags.

#### Using the event details panel

1. Open the state or event <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Use the **+ Tag** button to add a tag block.
3. Write your tag’s name in the tag’s text input.
4. Use the <PlusSquare size={18} /> plus icon button alongside your recent tag to add more tags.

### Defining tags

- Tags can be specified via an array, as `tag: ['tag1', 'tag2']`, or by a single string: `tag: 'tag1'`.
- Tags can be made type-safe in TypeScript by using [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx).

## State meta

<!-- deps: ["states","intro-to-state-api","after","transitioning-to-nodes-by-id"] -->

You can attach arbitrary data to any state by specifying it as `meta` on the state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const fetchMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  states: {
    pending: {
      on: {
        UNKNOWN_ERROR: 'errored',
      },
      after: {
        5000: 'timedOut',
      },
    },
    errored: {
      meta: {
        error: 'An unknown error occurred',
      },
    },
    timedOut: {
      meta: {
        error: 'Timeout error!',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

You can store anything in the `meta` attribute; XState doesn’t monitor it or do anything with its contents.

The current state of the machine collects the `meta` data of all of the state nodes, represented by the state value, and places them on an object where:

- The keys are the state node IDs
- The values are the state node `meta` values

For instance, if the machine above is in the `timedOut` state, the `meta` will be an object with the following shape:

```js
{
  timedOut: {
    alert: 'Timeout error!'
  },
}
```

## State descriptions

<!-- deps: ["parent-and-child-states"] -->

You can add descriptive text to states with the `description` attribute.

This text is used by the [Visualizer](/tools/visualizer.mdx) and the [Studio Editor](/#studio-editor) to make the diagrams more descriptive.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  description: `A machine that waits for something to happen, then completes`,
  states: {
    pending: {
      on: {
        FINISHED: 'complete',
      },
      description: `Waiting...`,
    },
    complete: {
      description: `Done!`,
    },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/other-state-attributes.mdx, after:

---
title: Other state attributes
---

# Other state attributes

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

- [Read about tags in XState V5](/docs/tags).
- [Read about meta in XState V5](/docs/finite-states/#meta).
- [Read about descriptions in XState V5](/docs/descriptions).

:::

States can have various other attributes, most of which are useful for narrower cases.

## State tags

State nodes can have **tags**, a list of strings that help describe the state node. Tags can be useful when categorizing different state nodes. For example, you can signify which state nodes represent “loading data” using a `"loading"` tag and determine if a state contains those tagged state nodes with `state.hasTag(tag)`:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        FETCH: 'loadingUser',
      },
    },
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    loadingFriends: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    editing: {},
  },
});

const actor = interpret(machine).start();

actor.state.hasTag('loading'); // false

actor.send('FETCH');

actor.state.hasTag('loading'); // true
```

Using tags can help you write more concise code. Instead of matching each actor individually:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        FETCH: 'loadingUser',
      },
    },
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    loadingFriends: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    editing: {},
  },
});

const actor = interpret(machine).start();

const isLoading =
  actor.state.matches('loadingUser') || actor.state.matches('loadingFriends');
```

You can group the actors by tag:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        FETCH: 'loadingUser',
      },
    },
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    loadingFriends: {
      tags: ['loading'],
    },
    editing: {},
  },
});

const actor = interpret(machine).start();

const isLoading = actor.state.hasTag('loading');
```

### Using tags in Stately Studio

You can add tags to states and events in Stately Studio.

First, select the state or event you want to tag.

#### On the canvas

1. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
2. Choose <Tag size={18} /> **Tag** from the menu to add a tag block.
3. Write your tag’s name in the tag’s text input.
4. Use the <PlusSquare size={18} /> plus icon button alongside your recent tag to add more tags.

#### Using the event details panel

1. Open the state or event <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Use the **+ Tag** button to add a tag block.
3. Write your tag’s name in the tag’s text input.
4. Use the <PlusSquare size={18} /> plus icon button alongside your recent tag to add more tags.

### Defining tags

- Tags can be specified via an array, as `tag: ['tag1', 'tag2']`, or by a single string: `tag: 'tag1'`.
- Tags can be made type-safe in TypeScript by using [typegen](/xstate/typescript/typegen.mdx).

## State meta

You can attach arbitrary data to any state by specifying it as `meta` on the state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const fetchMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  states: {
    pending: {
      on: {
        UNKNOWN_ERROR: 'errored',
      },
      after: {
        5000: 'timedOut',
      },
    },
    errored: {
      meta: {
        error: 'An unknown error occurred',
      },
    },
    timedOut: {
      meta: {
        error: 'Timeout error!',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

You can store anything in the `meta` attribute; XState doesn’t monitor it or do anything with its contents.

The current state of the machine collects the `meta` data of all of the state nodes, represented by the state value, and places them on an object where:

- The keys are the state node IDs
- The values are the state node `meta` values

For instance, if the machine above is in the `timedOut` state, the `meta` will be an object with the following shape:

```js
{
  timedOut: {
    alert: 'Timeout error!'
  },
}
```

## State descriptions

You can add descriptive text to states with the `description` attribute.

This text is used by the [Visualizer](/tools/visualizer.mdx) and the [Studio Editor](/#studio-editor) to make the diagrams more descriptive.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'pending',
  description: `A machine that waits for something to happen, then completes`,
  states: {
    pending: {
      on: {
        FINISHED: 'complete',
      },
      description: `Waiting...`,
    },
    complete: {
      description: `Done!`,
    },
  },
});
```
