versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/parallel-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Parallel states
---

# Parallel states

A [parallel state](/states/parallel-states.mdx) is a state separated into multiple regions of child states, where each region is active simultaneously.

:::studio

[Read more about how to use parallel states in the Stately Studio](/states/parallel-states.mdx).

:::

You can specify a parallel state node on the machine and/or any nested child state by setting `type: 'parallel'`.

For example, the machine below allows the `upload` and `download` child states to be simultaneously active. This example represents an application where you can download and upload files at the same time:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const fileMachine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  type: 'parallel',
  // highlight-end
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    upload: {
      // highlight-end
      initial: 'idle',
      states: {
        idle: {
          on: {
            INIT_UPLOAD: { target: 'pending' },
          },
        },
        pending: {
          on: {
            UPLOAD_COMPLETE: { target: 'success' },
          },
        },
        success: {},
      },
    },
    // highlight-start
    download: {
      // highlight-end
      initial: 'idle',
      states: {
        idle: {
          on: {
            INIT_DOWNLOAD: { target: 'pending' },
          },
        },
        pending: {
          on: {
            DOWNLOAD_COMPLETE: { target: 'success' },
          },
        },
        success: {},
      },
    },
  },
});
```

Parallel states allow you to run processes _simultaneously_ for greater flexibility and power.

## Matching parallel states

<!-- deps: ["intro-to-state-api","parent-and-child-states","parallel-states"] -->

The `state.matches` syntax checks if an actor is in a particular state when the machine is run using `interpret` or similar. You can use `state.matches` with parent states using either the string method or the object method.

### `state.matches` string argument

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

/**
 * Checks if the machine is in the red.stop
 * state
 */
console.log(state.matches('red.stop'));
```

### `state.matches` object argument

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

/**
 * Checks if the machine is in the red.stop
 * state
 */
state.matches({
  red: 'stop',
});
```

You can also use the object method to check if your machine is in two parallel states at once:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

/**
 * Checks if the machine is in the wind.blowing
 * state AND the rain.raining state
 */
state.matches({
  wind: 'blowing',
  rain: 'raining',
});
```

### Match one of multiple states

If you want to match one of multiple states, you can use [`.some()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/some) on an array of state values:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

const isMatch = [{ customer: 'deposit' }, { customer: 'withdrawal' }].some(
  state.matches,
);
```

## Targeting multiple parallel states

<!-- deps: ["parallel-states","transitions-and-events","targeting-children"] -->

Sometimes you’ll need a transition to target multiple parts of a parallel state simultaneously. This is useful when you want to affect different parts of a simultaneous process at the same time.

Multiple targets are specified as an array in `target: [...]`.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const settingsMachine = createMachine({
  type: 'parallel',
  states: {
    mode: {
      initial: 'active',
      states: {
        inactive: {},
        pending: {},
        active: {},
      },
    },
    status: {
      initial: 'enabled',
      states: {
        disabled: {},
        enabled: {},
      },
    },
  },
  on: {
    // Multiple targets
    // highlight-start
    DEACTIVATE: {
      target: ['.mode.inactive', '.status.disabled'],
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

In the example above, the `DEACTIVATE` event simultaneously causes _two_ changes, disabling the `status` and turning the `mode` to `inactive`.

## Final states and parallel states

<!-- deps: ["parallel-states", "state-done-events"] -->

When every child state node in a parallel state node is _done_, the parent parallel state node is also _done_. When every final state node in every child state node is reached, the `done` event will be fired for the parallel state node.

`onDone` is very useful in modeling parallel tasks. For example, below there is a shopping machine where `user` and `items` represent two parallel tasks of the `cart` state:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const shoppingMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'cart',
  states: {
    cart: {
      type: 'parallel',
      states: {
        user: {
          initial: 'pending',
          states: {
            pending: {
              entry: 'getUser',
              on: {
                RESOLVE_USER: { target: 'success' },
                REJECT_USER: { target: 'failure' },
              },
            },
            success: { type: 'final' },
            failure: {},
          },
        },
        items: {
          initial: 'pending',
          states: {
            pending: {
              entry: 'getItems',
              on: {
                RESOLVE_ITEMS: { target: 'success' },
                REJECT_ITEMS: { target: 'failure' },
              },
            },
            success: { type: 'final' },
            failure: {},
          },
        },
      },
      onDone: 'confirm',
    },
    confirm: {},
  },
});
```

The `onDone` transition will only happen when all of the child states of `cart` (e.g., `user` and `items`) are in their final states. In the case of the shopping machine, once the `shopping.cart.user.success` and `shopping.cart.items.success` state nodes are reached, the machine will transition from the `cart` to the `confirm` state.

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/parallel-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Parallel states
---

# Parallel states

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about parallel states in XState V5](/docs/parallel-states).

:::

A [parallel state](/states/parallel-states.mdx) is a state separated into multiple regions of child states, where each region is active simultaneously.

:::studio

[Read more about how to use parallel states in the Stately Studio](/states/parallel-states.mdx).

:::

You can specify a parallel state node on the machine and/or any nested child state by setting `type: 'parallel'`.

For example, the machine below allows the `upload` and `download` child states to be simultaneously active. This example represents an application where you can download and upload files at the same time:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const fileMachine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  type: 'parallel',
  // highlight-end
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    upload: {
      // highlight-end
      initial: 'idle',
      states: {
        idle: {
          on: {
            INIT_UPLOAD: { target: 'pending' },
          },
        },
        pending: {
          on: {
            UPLOAD_COMPLETE: { target: 'success' },
          },
        },
        success: {},
      },
    },
    // highlight-start
    download: {
      // highlight-end
      initial: 'idle',
      states: {
        idle: {
          on: {
            INIT_DOWNLOAD: { target: 'pending' },
          },
        },
        pending: {
          on: {
            DOWNLOAD_COMPLETE: { target: 'success' },
          },
        },
        success: {},
      },
    },
  },
});
```

Parallel states allow you to run processes _simultaneously_ for greater flexibility and power.

## Matching parallel states

<!-- deps: ["intro-to-state-api","parent-and-child-states","parallel-states"] -->

The `state.matches` syntax checks if an actor is in a particular state when the machine is run using `interpret` or similar. You can use `state.matches` with parent states using either the string method or the object method.

### `state.matches` string argument

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

/**
 * Checks if the machine is in the red.stop
 * state
 */
console.log(state.matches('red.stop'));
```

### `state.matches` object argument

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

/**
 * Checks if the machine is in the red.stop
 * state
 */
state.matches({
  red: 'stop',
});
```

You can also use the object method to check if your machine is in two parallel states at once:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

/**
 * Checks if the machine is in the wind.blowing
 * state AND the rain.raining state
 */
state.matches({
  wind: 'blowing',
  rain: 'raining',
});
```

### Match one of multiple states

If you want to match one of multiple states, you can use [`.some()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/some) on an array of state values:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({});
const state = machine.initialState;

const isMatch = [{ customer: 'deposit' }, { customer: 'withdrawal' }].some(
  state.matches,
);
```

## Targeting multiple parallel states

<!-- deps: ["parallel-states","transitions-and-events","targeting-children"] -->

Sometimes you’ll need a transition to target multiple parts of a parallel state simultaneously. This is useful when you want to affect different parts of a simultaneous process at the same time.

Multiple targets are specified as an array in `target: [...]`.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const settingsMachine = createMachine({
  type: 'parallel',
  states: {
    mode: {
      initial: 'active',
      states: {
        inactive: {},
        pending: {},
        active: {},
      },
    },
    status: {
      initial: 'enabled',
      states: {
        disabled: {},
        enabled: {},
      },
    },
  },
  on: {
    // Multiple targets
    // highlight-start
    DEACTIVATE: {
      target: ['.mode.inactive', '.status.disabled'],
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

In the example above, the `DEACTIVATE` event simultaneously causes _two_ changes, disabling the `status` and turning the `mode` to `inactive`.

## Final states and parallel states

<!-- deps: ["parallel-states", "state-done-events"] -->

When every child state node in a parallel state node is _done_, the parent parallel state node is also _done_. When every final state node in every child state node is reached, the `done` event will be fired for the parallel state node.

`onDone` is very useful in modeling parallel tasks. For example, below there is a shopping machine where `user` and `items` represent two parallel tasks of the `cart` state:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const shoppingMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'cart',
  states: {
    cart: {
      type: 'parallel',
      states: {
        user: {
          initial: 'pending',
          states: {
            pending: {
              entry: 'getUser',
              on: {
                RESOLVE_USER: { target: 'success' },
                REJECT_USER: { target: 'failure' },
              },
            },
            success: { type: 'final' },
            failure: {},
          },
        },
        items: {
          initial: 'pending',
          states: {
            pending: {
              entry: 'getItems',
              on: {
                RESOLVE_ITEMS: { target: 'success' },
                REJECT_ITEMS: { target: 'failure' },
              },
            },
            success: { type: 'final' },
            failure: {},
          },
        },
      },
      onDone: 'confirm',
    },
    confirm: {},
  },
});
```

The `onDone` transition will only happen when all of the child states of `cart` (e.g., `user` and `items`) are in their final states. In the case of the shopping machine, once the `shopping.cart.user.success` and `shopping.cart.items.success` state nodes are reached, the machine will transition from the `cart` to the `confirm` state.
