versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/parent-and-child-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Parent and child states
---

# Parent and child states

States can contain more states, also known as [child states](/states/parent-states.mdx). These child states are only active when the parent state is active. Child states are nested inside their parent states.

:::studio

[Read more about using parent and child states in the Stately Studio](/states/parent-states.mdx).

:::

In XState, you can specify a parent state using the `states` attribute on child nodes:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      on: {
        'leave home': {
          target: 'on a walk',
        },
      },
    },
    'on a walk': {
      initial: 'walking',
      on: {
        'arrive home': {
          target: 'walk complete',
        },
      },
      states: {
        walking: {
          on: {
            'speed up': {
              target: 'running',
            },
            stop: {
              target: 'stopping to sniff good smells',
            },
          },
        },
        running: {
          on: {
            'slow down': {
              target: 'walking',
            },
          },
        },
        'stopping to sniff good smells': {
          on: {
            'speed up': {
              target: 'walking',
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
    'walk complete': {},
  },
});
```

Note in the example above that transitions can be marked at different levels of the state hierarchy. In this example, the machine can receive the `arrive home` event in any of the child states inside `on a walk`.

However, the machine can only receive the `stop` event inside `on a walk.walking`. Events can be handled differently at different levels of the statechart, which is powerful for handling complex requirements.

## The root node

After learning about parent states, you might have noticed that all statecharts are parent states! Every statechart has a single _root state_ which you can treat just like any other state.

For example, you can listen to events on the root state:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    GREETED: {
      actions: 'sayHello',
    },
  },
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {},
    working: {},
  },
});
```

Any time the machine receives the `GREETED` event, no matter which state it’s in, it’ll run the `sayHello` action.

Entry and exit actions are also useful in the root state:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
  exit: ['sayGoodbye'],
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {},
    working: {},
  },
});
```

In the example above, the machine will `sayHello` when it starts running and `sayGoodbye` when it stops running.

You can also omit all states altogether! Sometimes you just need a root state, some events and some actions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
  exit: ['sayGoodbye'],
});
```

Everything that works inside a state — `after`, `always`, `invoke` (we’ll cover these later), `entry`, `exit` and more — will work inside the root node.

## `on` in parent states

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events", "parent-states", the-root-node] -->

When a child state cannot handle an `event`, that `event` is propagated up to its parent state (including the root node) to be handled.

In the example below, when you wave at your friend and the machine is in the `friendIsLookingAtYou` state, the `friendWavesBack` action is fired.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const waveMachine = createMachine({
  on: {
    WAVE_AT_YOUR_FRIEND: {
      actions: 'feelEmbarrassed',
    },
  },
  initial: 'friendIsLookingAtYou',
  states: {
    friendIsLookingAtYou: {
      on: {
        WAVE_AT_YOUR_FRIEND: {
          actions: 'friendWavesBack',
        },
      },
    },
    friendIsNotLookingAtYou: {},
    friendIsNotWhoYouThoughtTheyWere: {},
  },
});
```

If the machine is in the `friendIsNotLookingAtYou` or `friendIsNotWhoYouThoughtTheyWere` states, the event is propagated up to its parent state, the root node, and the `feelEmbarrassed` action is fired. We’ve all been there.

Adding transitions in the parent state helps reduce duplication when defining transitions.

## Wildcard transitions

A transition specified with a wildcard `*` is triggered by any event not already handled by the current state.

The following example shows a few different cases of when the wildcard `*` is triggered or not.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'inactive',
  on: {
    '*': {
      actions: 'logEventToConsole',
    },
    FOCUS: {
      actions: 'onFocus',
    },
  },
  states: {
    inactive: {
      on: {
        HOVER: {
          actions: 'onHover',
        },
      },
    },
    active: {},
  },
});
```

- If the `HOVER` event is received in the `inactive` state, it’ll trigger the `onHover` action. The wildcard won’t be called.
- If the `HOVER` event is received in the `active` state, it’ll be caught by the wildcard above it and will `logEventToConsole`.
- If the `FOCUS` event is received in any state, it’ll trigger the `onFocus` action, not the wildcard.

Wildcard transitions are great for logging untracked events or reducing code duplication.

Commit message:

Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

versioned_docs/version-4/xstate/states/parent-and-child-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Parent and child states
---

# Parent and child states

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about parent and child states in XState V5](/docs/parent-states).

:::

States can contain more states, also known as [child states](/states/parent-states.mdx). These child states are only active when the parent state is active. Child states are nested inside their parent states.

:::studio

[Read more about using parent and child states in the Stately Studio](/states/parent-states.mdx).

:::

In XState, you can specify a parent state using the `states` attribute on child nodes:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'waiting',
  states: {
    waiting: {
      on: {
        'leave home': {
          target: 'on a walk',
        },
      },
    },
    'on a walk': {
      initial: 'walking',
      on: {
        'arrive home': {
          target: 'walk complete',
        },
      },
      states: {
        walking: {
          on: {
            'speed up': {
              target: 'running',
            },
            stop: {
              target: 'stopping to sniff good smells',
            },
          },
        },
        running: {
          on: {
            'slow down': {
              target: 'walking',
            },
          },
        },
        'stopping to sniff good smells': {
          on: {
            'speed up': {
              target: 'walking',
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
    'walk complete': {},
  },
});
```

Note in the example above that transitions can be marked at different levels of the state hierarchy. In this example, the machine can receive the `arrive home` event in any of the child states inside `on a walk`.

However, the machine can only receive the `stop` event inside `on a walk.walking`. Events can be handled differently at different levels of the statechart, which is powerful for handling complex requirements.

## The root node

After learning about parent states, you might have noticed that all statecharts are parent states! Every statechart has a single _root state_ which you can treat just like any other state.

For example, you can listen to events on the root state:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    GREETED: {
      actions: 'sayHello',
    },
  },
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {},
    working: {},
  },
});
```

Any time the machine receives the `GREETED` event, no matter which state it’s in, it’ll run the `sayHello` action.

Entry and exit actions are also useful in the root state:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
  exit: ['sayGoodbye'],
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {},
    working: {},
  },
});
```

In the example above, the machine will `sayHello` when it starts running and `sayGoodbye` when it stops running.

You can also omit all states altogether! Sometimes you just need a root state, some events and some actions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ['sayHello'],
  exit: ['sayGoodbye'],
});
```

Everything that works inside a state — `after`, `always`, `invoke` (we’ll cover these later), `entry`, `exit` and more — will work inside the root node.

## `on` in parent states

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events", "parent-states", the-root-node] -->

When a child state cannot handle an `event`, that `event` is propagated up to its parent state (including the root node) to be handled.

In the example below, when you wave at your friend and the machine is in the `friendIsLookingAtYou` state, the `friendWavesBack` action is fired.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const waveMachine = createMachine({
  on: {
    WAVE_AT_YOUR_FRIEND: {
      actions: 'feelEmbarrassed',
    },
  },
  initial: 'friendIsLookingAtYou',
  states: {
    friendIsLookingAtYou: {
      on: {
        WAVE_AT_YOUR_FRIEND: {
          actions: 'friendWavesBack',
        },
      },
    },
    friendIsNotLookingAtYou: {},
    friendIsNotWhoYouThoughtTheyWere: {},
  },
});
```

If the machine is in the `friendIsNotLookingAtYou` or `friendIsNotWhoYouThoughtTheyWere` states, the event is propagated up to its parent state, the root node, and the `feelEmbarrassed` action is fired. We’ve all been there.

Adding transitions in the parent state helps reduce duplication when defining transitions.

## Wildcard transitions

A transition specified with a wildcard `*` is triggered by any event not already handled by the current state.

The following example shows a few different cases of when the wildcard `*` is triggered or not.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'inactive',
  on: {
    '*': {
      actions: 'logEventToConsole',
    },
    FOCUS: {
      actions: 'onFocus',
    },
  },
  states: {
    inactive: {
      on: {
        HOVER: {
          actions: 'onHover',
        },
      },
    },
    active: {},
  },
});
```

- If the `HOVER` event is received in the `inactive` state, it’ll trigger the `onHover` action. The wildcard won’t be called.
- If the `HOVER` event is received in the `active` state, it’ll be caught by the wildcard above it and will `logEventToConsole`.
- If the `FOCUS` event is received in any state, it’ll trigger the `onFocus` action, not the wildcard.

Wildcard transitions are great for logging untracked events or reducing code duplication.
