docs/tools/developer-tools.mdx, before:

---
title: Developer tools
---

## IDE extensions

Find more about our XState VSCode extension below. We plan to make extensions for more IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) in the future.

<!-- deps: [stately-editor] -->

### XState VSCode extension

The XState VSCode extension enhances the XState development experience by providing VSCode users with features like visual editing, autocomplete, typegen and linting.

#### Installation

1. Open the command palette with `shift` + `cmd/ctrl` + `p`.
2. Search for the Install Extensions command and hit enter to open the Extensions search.
3. Search for XState to find the XState VSCode extension and install the extension using the Install button.

Once installed, you can run `XState: Open Visual Editor` from the command palette to open any machine at your cursor’s location.

If you have code lens enabled (this can be enabled using `editor.codeLens` setting), ‘Open Visual Editor’ will also float above each `createMachine` call.

You can also [download the VSCode extension from the VSCode marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=statelyai.stately-vscode) or [download the VSCode extension from the Open VSX marketplace](https://open-vsx.org/extension/statelyai/stately-vscode).

#### Features

- **Visually edit machines**. Edit any XState machine with drag-and-drop using the integrated [Stately Visual editor](https://stately.ai/editor).
- **Autocomplete**. Intelligent suggestions for transition targets and initial states.
- **Linting**. Highlights errors and potential bugs in your XState machine definitions.
- **Jump to definition**. Navigate around machines easily with jump to definition on targets, actions, guards, actors and more.

#### Refactors

When hovering over a named action, guard or actor in a machine, press the lightbulb icon to view available refactors.

#### Ignoring machines

If you’d like to ignore linting/autocomplete on a machine, add an `// xstate-ignore-next-line` comment on the line above the machine:

```js
// xstate-ignore-next-line
createMachine({});
```

<!-- TODO: What does the layout string mean? -->

## Chrome Devtools

<!-- TODO: What are the Chrome devtools? -->

### Quick Start

- Run `npm install`
- Run `npm start` to build the `/panel` in development mode
- Go to [`chrome://extensions`](chrome://extensions) and **Load unpacked** this directory (`/packages/xstate-dev`)
- Select the `XState` extension in the dev tools

Commit message:

Add section about layout string

docs/tools/developer-tools.mdx, after:

---
title: Developer tools
---

## IDE extensions

Find more about our XState VSCode extension below. We plan to make extensions for more IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) in the future.

<!-- deps: [stately-editor] -->

### XState VSCode extension

The XState VSCode extension enhances the XState development experience by providing VSCode users with features like visual editing, autocomplete, typegen and linting.

#### Installation

1. Open the command palette with `shift` + `cmd/ctrl` + `p`.
2. Search for the Install Extensions command and hit enter to open the Extensions search.
3. Search for XState to find the XState VSCode extension and install the extension using the Install button.

Once installed, you can run `XState: Open Visual Editor` from the command palette to open any machine at your cursor’s location.

If you have code lens enabled (this can be enabled using `editor.codeLens` setting), ‘Open Visual Editor’ will also float above each `createMachine` call.

You can also [download the VSCode extension from the VSCode marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=statelyai.stately-vscode) or [download the VSCode extension from the Open VSX marketplace](https://open-vsx.org/extension/statelyai/stately-vscode).

#### Features

- **Visually edit machines**. Edit any XState machine with drag-and-drop using the integrated [Stately Visual editor](https://stately.ai/editor).
- **Autocomplete**. Intelligent suggestions for transition targets and initial states.
- **Linting**. Highlights errors and potential bugs in your XState machine definitions.
- **Jump to definition**. Navigate around machines easily with jump to definition on targets, actions, guards, actors and more.

#### Refactors

When hovering over a named action, guard or actor in a machine, press the lightbulb icon to view available refactors.

#### Ignoring machines

If you’d like to ignore linting/autocomplete on a machine, add an `// xstate-ignore-next-line` comment on the line above the machine:

```js
// xstate-ignore-next-line
createMachine({});
```

#### Machine Layout Persistence

Upon opening an XState machine in the VSCode Editor, you may notice a long `@xstate-layout` comment inserted in the code just above the call to `createMachine()`.

```js
/** @xstate-layout N4IgpgJg5mDOIC5QFEA... */
```

This layout string is for persisting manual changes you make to the machine’s layout and is automatically updated by the XState Extension whenever layout changes occur. It is not intended to be human-readable nor manually edited. When updates to this string are made by the extension, the file is not saved until a manual save is performed. The layout algorithm is able to interpret this string and automatically format the machine's layout whenever it is re-opened in the Editor.

## Chrome Devtools

<!-- TODO: What are the Chrome devtools? -->

### Quick Start

- Run `npm install`
- Run `npm start` to build the `/panel` in development mode
- Go to [`chrome://extensions`](chrome://extensions) and **Load unpacked** this directory (`/packages/xstate-dev`)
- Select the `XState` extension in the dev tools
