docs/tools/inspector.mdx, before:

---
title: Inspector
---

# Inspector

`@xstate/inspect` enables you to inspect and manipulate machines _while they’re running_ in your app. [Check out the @xstate/inspect package on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-inspect).

Currently, `@xstate/inspect` only works in _frontend applications_ , but we’re working on a version that can inspect machines running in [Node](https://nodejs.org/).

To see it running right now, here are our CodeSandbox templates:

- [XState (Vanilla)](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-ts-viz-template-qzdvv)
- [XState + TypeScript](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-ts-viz-template-qzdvv)
- [XState + Vue](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-vue-viz-template-r5wd7)
- [XState + React](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-react-viz-template-5wq3q)

## Quickstart

1. Install with npm or yarn:

```bash
npm install @xstate/inspect
# or yarn add @xstate/inspect
```

2. Import @xstate/inspect at the beginning of your project before any other code is called:

```ts
import { inspect } from '@xstate/inspect';

inspect({
  // options
  // url: 'https://stately.ai/viz?inspect', // (default)
  iframe: false, // open in new window
});
```

3. Add `{ devTools: true }` to any interpreted machines you want to visualize:

```ts
import { interpret } from 'xstate';
import { inspect } from '@xstate/inspect';

const actor = interpret(someMachine, {
  devTools: true,
}).start();
```

## Options

```js
// defaults
inspect({
  iframe: () => document.querySelector('iframe[data-xstate]'),
  url: 'https://stately.ai/viz?inspect',
});

// the code above does the same as:
inspect();
```

You can pass several properties to the `options` object, all of which are optional.

### `iframe`

`iframe` (function or iframe `Element` or `false`) resolves to the `iframe` element to display the inspector. If set to `iframe: false`, a popup window is used instead.

:::caution 

You may need to “allow popups” in your browser to display the inspector in a popup window, as the browser might block them by default.

:::

By default, the inspector will look for an `<iframe data-xstate>` element anywhere in the document. If you want to target a custom iframe, specify it eagerly or lazily:

```js
// eager
inspect({
  iframe: document.querySelector('iframe.some-xstate-iframe'),
});
```

```js
// lazy
inspect({
  iframe: () => document.querySelector('iframe.some-xstate-iframe'),
});
```

### `url`

Use the `url` property (string) to specify the URL of the inspector you want to connect to. By default, the inspector runs on `https://stately.ai/viz?inspect`.

## Disconnecting

`inspect` returns a function, `disconnect`, you can use to disconnect the inspector.

```ts
import { inspect } from '@xstate/inspect';

const inspector = inspect();
inspector?.disconnect();
```

## Implementation

You can implement your own inspector by creating a **receiver**. A **receiver** is an actor that receives inspector events from a source, like a parent window or a WebSocket connection:

`"actor.register"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.register';
    machine: AnyStateMachine;
    state: AnyState;
    id: string;
    sessionId: string;
    parent?: string;
    source?: string;
  }
  ```

`"actor.stop"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.stop';
    sessionId: string;
  }
  ```

`"actor.state"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.state';
    state: AnyState;
    sessionId: string;
  }
  ```

`"actor.event"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.event';
    event: SCXML.Event<any>;
    sessionId: string;
  }
  ```

To listen to events from an inspected source, create a receiver with the appropriate `create*Receiver(...)` function; for example:

```js
import { createWindowReceiver } from '@xstate/inspect';

const windowReceiver = createWindowReceiver(/* options? */);

windowReceiver.subscribe((event) => {
  // here, you will receive "actor.*" events
  console.log(event);
});
```

You can also send events to the receiver:

```js
// ...

// This will send the event to the inspected actor
windowReceiver.send({
  type: 'xstate.event',
  event: JSON.stringify({ type: 'someEvent' }),
  actor: /* session ID of the actor this event is sent to */
});
```

The typical inspection workflow is as follows:

1. The `inspect(/* ... */)` call on the client opens the inspector. For example, in a separate window or creates a WebSocket connection.
2. The receiver sends an `"xstate.inspecting"` event to the client.
3. The client sends `"actor.register"` events to the receiver.
4. An inspector listening to the receiver via `receiver.subscribe(...)` registers the machine, `event.machine`, by its `event.sessionId`.
5. The machine is rendered visually, and its current state, `event.state`, is highlighted
6. As the actor at the source receives events and changes state, it will send the receiver `"actor.event"` and `"actor.state"` events, respectively.
7. The inspector can use those events to highlight the current state and keep a log of events sent to that actor.
8. When the actor stops, a `"actor.stop"` event is sent to the receiver with the `event.sessionId` to identify the stopped actor.

### How do I run the inspector in a NextJS app?

If you want to run the inspector in a NextJS app, you must ensure that the inspector code only runs on the client rather than the server:

```js
if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
  inspect({
    /* options */
  });
}
```

Commit message:

More search engine optimisation (#171)
* Paginate blog posts to improve performance

* Fix tip box at end of actors page

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Add meta descriptions for coc and privacy pages

Towards STA-4286

* Start writing custom meta descriptions for docs pages

* Change site title to Stately docs and blog

Towards STA-4518

* Take back change of title, as not SEO-friendly in length

* Shorten over-long blog post titles for SEO

* Fix typo

* Add/improve meta descriptions for model-based testing section.

* Improve meta descriptions for XState package docs

docs/tools/inspector.mdx, after:

---
title: Inspector
description: '@xstate/inspect enables you to inspect and manipulate machines while they’re running in your app. Check out the @xstate/inspect package on GitHub.'
---

# Inspector

`@xstate/inspect` enables you to inspect and manipulate machines _while they’re running_ in your app. [Check out the @xstate/inspect package on GitHub](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-inspect).

Currently, `@xstate/inspect` only works in _frontend applications_ , but we’re working on a version that can inspect machines running in [Node](https://nodejs.org/).

To see it running right now, here are our CodeSandbox templates:

- [XState (Vanilla)](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-ts-viz-template-qzdvv)
- [XState + TypeScript](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-ts-viz-template-qzdvv)
- [XState + Vue](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-vue-viz-template-r5wd7)
- [XState + React](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-react-viz-template-5wq3q)

## Quickstart

1. Install with npm or yarn:

```bash
npm install @xstate/inspect
# or yarn add @xstate/inspect
```

2. Import @xstate/inspect at the beginning of your project before any other code is called:

```ts
import { inspect } from '@xstate/inspect';

inspect({
  // options
  // url: 'https://stately.ai/viz?inspect', // (default)
  iframe: false, // open in new window
});
```

3. Add `{ devTools: true }` to any interpreted machines you want to visualize:

```ts
import { interpret } from 'xstate';
import { inspect } from '@xstate/inspect';

const actor = interpret(someMachine, {
  devTools: true,
}).start();
```

## Options

```js
// defaults
inspect({
  iframe: () => document.querySelector('iframe[data-xstate]'),
  url: 'https://stately.ai/viz?inspect',
});

// the code above does the same as:
inspect();
```

You can pass several properties to the `options` object, all of which are optional.

### `iframe`

`iframe` (function or iframe `Element` or `false`) resolves to the `iframe` element to display the inspector. If set to `iframe: false`, a popup window is used instead.

:::caution 

You may need to “allow popups” in your browser to display the inspector in a popup window, as the browser might block them by default.

:::

By default, the inspector will look for an `<iframe data-xstate>` element anywhere in the document. If you want to target a custom iframe, specify it eagerly or lazily:

```js
// eager
inspect({
  iframe: document.querySelector('iframe.some-xstate-iframe'),
});
```

```js
// lazy
inspect({
  iframe: () => document.querySelector('iframe.some-xstate-iframe'),
});
```

### `url`

Use the `url` property (string) to specify the URL of the inspector you want to connect to. By default, the inspector runs on `https://stately.ai/viz?inspect`.

## Disconnecting

`inspect` returns a function, `disconnect`, you can use to disconnect the inspector.

```ts
import { inspect } from '@xstate/inspect';

const inspector = inspect();
inspector?.disconnect();
```

## Implementation

You can implement your own inspector by creating a **receiver**. A **receiver** is an actor that receives inspector events from a source, like a parent window or a WebSocket connection:

`"actor.register"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.register';
    machine: AnyStateMachine;
    state: AnyState;
    id: string;
    sessionId: string;
    parent?: string;
    source?: string;
  }
  ```

`"actor.stop"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.stop';
    sessionId: string;
  }
  ```

`"actor.state"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.state';
    state: AnyState;
    sessionId: string;
  }
  ```

`"actor.event"`

  ```ts
  {
    type: 'actor.event';
    event: SCXML.Event<any>;
    sessionId: string;
  }
  ```

To listen to events from an inspected source, create a receiver with the appropriate `create*Receiver(...)` function; for example:

```js
import { createWindowReceiver } from '@xstate/inspect';

const windowReceiver = createWindowReceiver(/* options? */);

windowReceiver.subscribe((event) => {
  // here, you will receive "actor.*" events
  console.log(event);
});
```

You can also send events to the receiver:

```js
// ...

// This will send the event to the inspected actor
windowReceiver.send({
  type: 'xstate.event',
  event: JSON.stringify({ type: 'someEvent' }),
  actor: /* session ID of the actor this event is sent to */
});
```

The typical inspection workflow is as follows:

1. The `inspect(/* ... */)` call on the client opens the inspector. For example, in a separate window or creates a WebSocket connection.
2. The receiver sends an `"xstate.inspecting"` event to the client.
3. The client sends `"actor.register"` events to the receiver.
4. An inspector listening to the receiver via `receiver.subscribe(...)` registers the machine, `event.machine`, by its `event.sessionId`.
5. The machine is rendered visually, and its current state, `event.state`, is highlighted
6. As the actor at the source receives events and changes state, it will send the receiver `"actor.event"` and `"actor.state"` events, respectively.
7. The inspector can use those events to highlight the current state and keep a log of events sent to that actor.
8. When the actor stops, a `"actor.stop"` event is sent to the receiver with the `event.sessionId` to identify the stopped actor.

### How do I run the inspector in a NextJS app?

If you want to run the inspector in a NextJS app, you must ensure that the inspector code only runs on the client rather than the server:

```js
if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
  inspect({
    /* options */
  });
}
```
