docs/transitions-and-choices/always.mdx, before:

---
title: Always
---

# Always

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events", "guards", "self-transitions"] -->

Sometimes you’ll need to make checks in your statechart’s current state _without_ receiving an event. You can do this by marking a set of transitions as **always** needing to be run in a state.

A simple example would be a state that always transitions from `a` to `b`:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'a',
  states: {
    a: {
      always: [
        {
          target: 'b',
        },
      ],
    },
    b: {},
  },
});
```

Using the `always` transition means that `a` will _instantly_ transition to `b` when the machine enters the `a` state.

You can also pair `always` transitions with a guard:

```ts twoslash {7-12}
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'a',
    states: {
      a: {
        always: [
          {
            cond: 'shouldTransition',
            target: 'b',
          },
        ],
      },
      b: {},
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      isNotAdmin: (ctx) => ctx.user.role !== 'admin',
    },
  }
);
```

In the example above, the transition will only happen when `shouldTransition` returns true. Otherwise, the machine will stay in the same state.

Always transitions are checked immediately when the machine enters the state node, after checking for regular transitions and before checking if there are any transitions for any other queued events.

Always transitions are extremely useful for reducing duplication in guards, along with other uses.

<!-- TODO - refine this example to show a before and after, with loads of guards in the before \-->

```ts twoslash {11-14}
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const gameMachine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'playing',
    context: {
      points: 0,
    },
    states: {
      playing: {
        always: [
          { target: 'win', cond: 'didPlayerWin' },
          { target: 'lose', cond: 'didPlayerLose' },
        ],
        on: {
          AWARD_POINTS: {
            actions: 'awardPoints',
          },
        },
      },
      win: {},
      lose: {},
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      awardPoints: assign({
        points: (context) => context.points + 100,
      }),
    },
    guards: {
      didPlayerWin: (context, event) => {
        return context.points > 99;
      },
      didPlayerLose: (context, event) => {
        return context.points < 0;
      },
    },
  }
);
```

<!-- TODO - discuss the dangers of infinite loops with always \-->

Commit message:

Make “always” eventless transitions terminology consistent
And improve intro to always page

docs/transitions-and-choices/always.mdx, after:

---
title: Always
---

<!-- deps: ["transitions-and-events", "guards", "self-transitions"] -->

Sometimes you’ll need to make checks in your statechart’s current state _without_ receiving an event. You can do this with an eventless transition.

Eventless transitions are transitions without events. These transitions are **always** taken after any transition in their state if enabled; no event is necessary to trigger the transition. Eventless transitions are labeled “always” and often referred to as “always” transitions.

A simple example is a state that always transitions from `a` to `b`:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'a',
  states: {
    a: {
      always: [
        {
          target: 'b',
        },
      ],
    },
    b: {},
  },
});
```

Using the `always` transition means that `a` will _instantly_ transition to `b` when the machine enters the `a` state.

You can also pair `always` transitions with a guard:

```ts twoslash {7-12}
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

// ---cut---

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'a',
    states: {
      a: {
        always: [
          {
            cond: 'shouldTransition',
            target: 'b',
          },
        ],
      },
      b: {},
    },
  },
  {
    guards: {
      isNotAdmin: (ctx) => ctx.user.role !== 'admin',
    },
  }
);
```

In the example above, the transition will only happen when `shouldTransition` returns true. Otherwise, the machine will stay in the same state.

“Always” transitions are checked immediately when the machine enters the state node, after checking for regular transitions and before checking if there are any transitions for any other queued events.

“Always” transitions are extremely useful for reducing duplication in guards, along with other uses.

<!-- TODO - refine this example to show a before and after, with loads of guards in the before \-->

```ts twoslash {11-14}
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const gameMachine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'playing',
    context: {
      points: 0,
    },
    states: {
      playing: {
        always: [
          { target: 'win', cond: 'didPlayerWin' },
          { target: 'lose', cond: 'didPlayerLose' },
        ],
        on: {
          AWARD_POINTS: {
            actions: 'awardPoints',
          },
        },
      },
      win: {},
      lose: {},
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      awardPoints: assign({
        points: (context) => context.points + 100,
      }),
    },
    guards: {
      didPlayerWin: (context, event) => {
        return context.points > 99;
      },
      didPlayerLose: (context, event) => {
        return context.points < 0;
      },
    },
  }
);
```

<!-- TODO - discuss the dangers of infinite loops with always \-->
