versioned_docs/version-5/actions.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Actions'
---

Actions are fire-and-forget effects. When a state machine transitions, it may execute actions. Actions occur in response to events, and are typically defined on transitions in the `actions: ...` property. Anywhere you can use an action, you can also declare it as an array to express multiple actions.

Actions can also be on a states’ `entry` or `exit`, also as a single action or an array.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } }
          ]
        }
      },
      exit: ['exitAction']
    }
    thanks: {
      entry: ['showConfetti'],
    }
  }
}, {
  actions: {
    track: ({ action }) => {
      track(action.params);
      // tracks { response: 'good' }
    },
    showConfetti: () => {
      // ...
    }
  }
})
```

Examples of actions:

- Logging a message
- Sending a message to another [actor](actors.mdx)
- _Coming soon: more examples_

<SkipDownLink
  text="Jump to learning more about entry and exit actions in XState"
  link="#entry-and-exit-actions"
/>

## Using actions in Stately Studio

:::tip

Watch our [“Entry actions and exit actions” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GYoYZ1Dt1sA&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=8) (1m32s).

:::

In our video player machine, we have entry and exit actions on the Playing state. We use the entry action of playVideo to fire an effect playing the video on entry to the Playing state. We use the exit action of pauseVideo to fire an effect pausing the video when the Playing state is exited.

<EmbedMachine 
  name="video player machine"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=222e2d7a-0ed6-4f2c-843a-e6646d717000"
/>

#### Add an entry action to a state

1. Select the state you want to have an entry action.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+** plus icon alongside the **Entry actions** to add a new action.
4. Use the **Custom** tab under **Entry actions** to input the **type** for the entry action.
5. Use the **Assign** tab under **Entry actions** to assign **key** and **assignment** pairs to the entry action.
6. Save the entry action using the **Save** button.

#### Add an exit action to a state

1. Select the state you want to have an exit action.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+** plus icon alongside the **Exit actions** to add a new action.
4. Use the **Custom** tab under **Exit actions** to input the **type** for the exit action.
5. Use the **Assign** tab under **Exit actions** to assign **key** and **assignment** pairs to the exit action.
6. Save the entry action using the **Save** button.

In our video player machine, we have entry and exit actions on the Playing state. We use the entry action of playVideo to fire an effect playing the video on entry to the Playing state. We use the exit action of pauseVideo to fire an effect pausing the video when the Playing state is exited.

## Entry and exit actions

Entry actions are actions that occur on any transition that enters a state node.

Coming soon… illustation

Exit actions are actions that occur on any transition that exits a state node.

Coming soon… illustration

Entry and exit actions are defined using the `entry: ...` and `exit: ...` attributes on a state node. You can fire multiple entry and exit actions on a state. Top-level final states cannot have exit actions, since the machine is stopped and no further transitions can occur.

Coming soon… example


## Inline actions

You can declare actions as inline functions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    // highlight-start
    // Inline action
    ({ context, event }) => {
      console.log(/* ... */);
    },
    // highlight-end
  ],
});
```

Inline actions are useful for prototyping and simple cases but we generally recommended using serialized actions.

## Action objects

Action objects have an action `type` and an optional `params` object:

- Action `type` describes the action. Actions with the same type have the same implementation.
- Action `params` hold parameterized values that are relevant to the action.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            // highlight-start
            {
              // Action type
              type: 'track',
              // Action params
              params: { response: 'good' },
            },
            // highlight-end
          ],
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Implementing actions

You can add the implementations for named actions in the `actions` property of the 2nd argument of `createMachine(config, implementations)`:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine(
  {
    // Machine config
    // ...
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      track: ({ context, event }) => {
        // Action implementation
        // ...
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

These implementations can later be overridden by providing implementations in the `machine.provide(implementations)` method, which creates a new machine with the same config but with the provided implementations:

```ts
const feedbackActor = interpret(
  // highlight-start
  feedbackMachine.provide({
    actions: {
      track: ({ context, event }) => {
        // Overridden action implementation
        // ...
      },
    },
  }),
  // highlight-end
);
```

## Assign action

The `assign(...)` action is a special action that assigns data to the state context. The `assignments` argument in `assign(assignments)` is where assignments to context are specified.

Assignments can be an object of key-value pairs where the keys are `context` keys and the values are either static values or expressions that return the new value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
    },
  },
});

const countActor = interpret(countMachine);
countActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.count);
});
countActor.start();
// logs 0

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 3 });
// logs 3

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 2 });
// logs 5
```

For more dynamic assignments, the `assignments` argument may also be a function that returns the partial or full `context` value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign(({ context, event }) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + event.value,
        };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Raise action

The raise action is a special action that _raises_ an event that is received by the same machine. Raising an event is how a machine can “send” an event to itself:

```ts
actions: raise({ type: 'someEvent', data: 'someData' });
```

Internally, when an event is raised, it is placed into an “internal event queue”. After the current transition is finished, these events are processed in insertion order ([first-in first-out, or FIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics))). External events are only processed once all events in the internal event queue are processed.

Raised events can be dynamic:

```ts
raise(({ context, event }) => ({ type: 'SOME_EVENT' }));
```

Events can also be raised with a delay, which will not place them in the internal event queue, since they will not be immediately processed:

```ts
actions: raise({ type: 'someEvent' }, { delay: 1000 });
```

## Send-to action

The `sendTo(...)` action is a special action that sends an event to a specific actor.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The event can be dynamic:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', ({ context, event }) => {
        return { type: 'someEvent', data: context.someData };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The destination actor can be the actor ID or the actor reference itself:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    someActorRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */)),
  }),
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo(({ context }) => context.someActorRef, {
        type: 'someEvent',
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

Other options, such as `delay` and `id`, can be passed as the 3rd argument:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        // highlight-start
        {
          id: 'transmission',
          delay: 1000,
        },
        // highlight-end
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

## Pure action

The `pure(...)` action is a higher-level action that returns an array of actions to be executed, without actually executing any effects (hence the name "pure").

_Example coming soon_

## Log action

The `log(...)` action is an easy way to log messages to the console.

_Example coming soon_

## Choose action

The `choose(...)` action is a higher-level action that returns an array of actions to be executed.

_Example coming soon_

## Cancel action

The `cancel(...)` action cancels a delayed `sendTo(...)` or `raise(...)` action by their IDs:

```ts
import { createMachine, sendTo, cancel } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    event: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        {
          // highlight-next-line
          id: 'someId',
          delay: 1000,
        },
      ),
    },
    cancelEvent: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: cancel('someId'),
    },
  },
});
```

## Stop action

The `stop(...)` action stops a child actor. Actors can only be stopped from their parent actor:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    spawnedRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */), { id: 'spawnedId' }),
  }),
  on: {
    stopById: {
      actions: stop('spawnedId'),
    },
    stopByRef: {
      actions: stop(({ context }) => context.spawnedRef),
    },
  },
});
```

## Modeling

If you only need to execute actions in response to events, you can create a [self-transition](transitions.mdx#self-transitions) that only has `actions: [ ... ]` defined. For example, a machine that only needs to assign to `context` in transitions may look like this:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  // highlight-start
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
    },
    decrement: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count - event.value,
      }),
    },
  },
  // highlight-end
});
```

## Shorthands

- For simple actions, can specify action string instead of object
- Objects preferred for consistency

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Start documenting actions for blocks

versioned_docs/version-5/actions.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Actions'
---

Actions are fire-and-forget effects. When a state machine transitions, it may execute actions. Actions occur in response to events, and are typically defined on transitions in the `actions: ...` property. Anywhere you can use an action, you can also declare it as an array to express multiple actions.

Actions can also be on a states’ `entry` or `exit`, also as a single action or an array.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } }
          ]
        }
      },
      exit: ['exitAction']
    }
    thanks: {
      entry: ['showConfetti'],
    }
  }
}, {
  actions: {
    track: ({ action }) => {
      track(action.params);
      // tracks { response: 'good' }
    },
    showConfetti: () => {
      // ...
    }
  }
})
```

Examples of actions:

- Logging a message
- Sending a message to another [actor](actors.mdx)
- _Coming soon: more examples_

<SkipDownLink
  text="Jump to learning more about entry and exit actions in XState"
  link="#entry-and-exit-actions"
/>

## Using actions in Stately Studio

In our video player machine, we have entry and exit actions on the Playing state. We use the entry action of playVideo to fire an effect playing the video on entry to the Playing state. We use the exit action of pauseVideo to fire an effect pausing the video when the Playing state is exited.

<EmbedMachine 
  name="video player machine"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=222e2d7a-0ed6-4f2c-843a-e6646d717000"
/>

### Add a transition action

First, select the event where you want an action to be fired.

### Using the edit menu

### Using the event details panel


### Delete a transition action

### Add an entry action to a state

1. Select the state you want to have an entry action.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+** plus icon alongside the **Entry actions** to add a new action.
4. Use the **Custom** tab under **Entry actions** to input the **type** for the entry action.
5. Use the **Assign** tab under **Entry actions** to assign **key** and **assignment** pairs to the entry action.
6. Save the entry action using the **Save** button.

### Add an exit action to a state

1. Select the state you want to have an exit action.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+** plus icon alongside the **Exit actions** to add a new action.
4. Use the **Custom** tab under **Exit actions** to input the **type** for the exit action.
5. Use the **Assign** tab under **Exit actions** to assign **key** and **assignment** pairs to the exit action.
6. Save the entry action using the **Save** button.


## Entry and exit actions

Entry actions are actions that occur on any transition that enters a state node.

Coming soon… illustation

Exit actions are actions that occur on any transition that exits a state node.

Coming soon… illustration

Entry and exit actions are defined using the `entry: ...` and `exit: ...` attributes on a state node. You can fire multiple entry and exit actions on a state. Top-level final states cannot have exit actions, since the machine is stopped and no further transitions can occur.

Coming soon… example


## Inline actions

You can declare actions as inline functions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    // highlight-start
    // Inline action
    ({ context, event }) => {
      console.log(/* ... */);
    },
    // highlight-end
  ],
});
```

Inline actions are useful for prototyping and simple cases but we generally recommended using serialized actions.

## Action objects

Action objects have an action `type` and an optional `params` object:

- Action `type` describes the action. Actions with the same type have the same implementation.
- Action `params` hold parameterized values that are relevant to the action.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            // highlight-start
            {
              // Action type
              type: 'track',
              // Action params
              params: { response: 'good' },
            },
            // highlight-end
          ],
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Implementing actions

You can add the implementations for named actions in the `actions` property of the 2nd argument of `createMachine(config, implementations)`:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine(
  {
    // Machine config
    // ...
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    actions: {
      track: ({ context, event }) => {
        // Action implementation
        // ...
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

These implementations can later be overridden by providing implementations in the `machine.provide(implementations)` method, which creates a new machine with the same config but with the provided implementations:

```ts
const feedbackActor = interpret(
  // highlight-start
  feedbackMachine.provide({
    actions: {
      track: ({ context, event }) => {
        // Overridden action implementation
        // ...
      },
    },
  }),
  // highlight-end
);
```

## Assign action

The `assign(...)` action is a special action that assigns data to the state context. The `assignments` argument in `assign(assignments)` is where assignments to context are specified.

Assignments can be an object of key-value pairs where the keys are `context` keys and the values are either static values or expressions that return the new value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
    },
  },
});

const countActor = interpret(countMachine);
countActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.count);
});
countActor.start();
// logs 0

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 3 });
// logs 3

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 2 });
// logs 5
```

For more dynamic assignments, the `assignments` argument may also be a function that returns the partial or full `context` value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign(({ context, event }) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + event.value,
        };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Raise action

The raise action is a special action that _raises_ an event that is received by the same machine. Raising an event is how a machine can “send” an event to itself:

```ts
actions: raise({ type: 'someEvent', data: 'someData' });
```

Internally, when an event is raised, it is placed into an “internal event queue”. After the current transition is finished, these events are processed in insertion order ([first-in first-out, or FIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics))). External events are only processed once all events in the internal event queue are processed.

Raised events can be dynamic:

```ts
raise(({ context, event }) => ({ type: 'SOME_EVENT' }));
```

Events can also be raised with a delay, which will not place them in the internal event queue, since they will not be immediately processed:

```ts
actions: raise({ type: 'someEvent' }, { delay: 1000 });
```

## Send-to action

The `sendTo(...)` action is a special action that sends an event to a specific actor.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The event can be dynamic:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', ({ context, event }) => {
        return { type: 'someEvent', data: context.someData };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The destination actor can be the actor ID or the actor reference itself:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    someActorRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */)),
  }),
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo(({ context }) => context.someActorRef, {
        type: 'someEvent',
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

Other options, such as `delay` and `id`, can be passed as the 3rd argument:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        // highlight-start
        {
          id: 'transmission',
          delay: 1000,
        },
        // highlight-end
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

## Pure action

The `pure(...)` action is a higher-level action that returns an array of actions to be executed, without actually executing any effects (hence the name "pure").

_Example coming soon_

## Log action

The `log(...)` action is an easy way to log messages to the console.

_Example coming soon_

## Choose action

The `choose(...)` action is a higher-level action that returns an array of actions to be executed.

_Example coming soon_

## Cancel action

The `cancel(...)` action cancels a delayed `sendTo(...)` or `raise(...)` action by their IDs:

```ts
import { createMachine, sendTo, cancel } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    event: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        {
          // highlight-next-line
          id: 'someId',
          delay: 1000,
        },
      ),
    },
    cancelEvent: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: cancel('someId'),
    },
  },
});
```

## Stop action

The `stop(...)` action stops a child actor. Actors can only be stopped from their parent actor:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    spawnedRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */), { id: 'spawnedId' }),
  }),
  on: {
    stopById: {
      actions: stop('spawnedId'),
    },
    stopByRef: {
      actions: stop(({ context }) => context.spawnedRef),
    },
  },
});
```

## Modeling

If you only need to execute actions in response to events, you can create a [self-transition](transitions.mdx#self-transitions) that only has `actions: [ ... ]` defined. For example, a machine that only needs to assign to `context` in transitions may look like this:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  // highlight-start
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
    },
    decrement: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count - event.value,
      }),
    },
  },
  // highlight-end
});
```

## Shorthands

- For simple actions, can specify action string instead of object
- Objects preferred for consistency

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
