versioned_docs/version-5/actor-model.mdx, before:

---
title: The actor model
---

When you run a state machine, it becomes an actor. In the actor model, actors are objects that can talk to each other via asynchronous messages. In XState, we refer to these messages as [**events**](transitions.mdx).

TODO: What are some good examples of actors in software development?

## State

An actor has its own internal, encapsulated state that the actor itself can only update. An actor may update its internal state in response to a message it receives, but it cannot be updated by any other entity. Actors do not share state. The only way for an actor to share data is by sending events.

[Read more about actors and state](actors.mdx).

## Communication with events

Actors communicate with other actors by sending and receiving events asynchronously. Actors use an internal “mailbox” that acts like an event queue, processing events one at a time.

[Read more about actors and events](actors.mdx).

## Spawning

Actors can spawn new actors. Actors will spawn new actors in situations where they need to delegate work to another actor or when they need to create a new actor to handle a new task. Spawning allows for a flexible and dynamic system where actors can be created and destroyed as needed to handle the workload efficiently.

[Read more about spawning actors](spawn.mdx).

## Backend development

TODO: How do you use the actor model in backend dev? (Summary, maybe example)

## Frontend development

TODO: How do you use the actor model in frontend dev? (Summary, maybe example)

## XState

TODO: How does the actor model work in XState? (Summary, link to further text)

## Further resources

Commit message:

More v5 docs content (#89)
* Flesh out eventless transitions page more

* Add more to delayed transitions page

* Replace todos with coming soon and add URLs for all todo URLs

* Remove redundant headings and add coming soon under todo headings

* Fix broken link

versioned_docs/version-5/actor-model.mdx, after:

---
title: The actor model
---

When you run a state machine, it becomes an actor. In the actor model, actors are objects that can talk to each other via asynchronous messages. In XState, we refer to these messages as [**events**](transitions.mdx).

Coming soon… what are some good examples of actors in software development?

## State

An actor has its own internal, encapsulated state that the actor itself can only update. An actor may update its internal state in response to a message it receives, but it cannot be updated by any other entity. Actors do not share state. The only way for an actor to share data is by sending events.

[Read more about actors and state](actors.mdx).

## Communication with events

Actors communicate with other actors by sending and receiving events asynchronously. Actors use an internal “mailbox” that acts like an event queue, processing events one at a time.

[Read more about actors and events](actors.mdx).

## Spawning

Actors can spawn new actors. Actors will spawn new actors in situations where they need to delegate work to another actor or when they need to create a new actor to handle a new task. Spawning allows for a flexible and dynamic system where actors can be created and destroyed as needed to handle the workload efficiently.

[Read more about spawning actors](spawn.mdx).

## Backend development

Coming soon… how do you use the actor model in backend dev? (Summary, maybe example)

## Frontend development

Coming soon… how do you use the actor model in frontend dev? (Summary, maybe example)

## XState

Coming soon… how does the actor model work in XState? (Summary, link to further text)
