versioned_docs/version-5/actors.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Actors'
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

When you run a state machine, it becomes an actor: a running process that can receive messages, send messages and change its behavior based on the messages it receives, which can cause effects outside of the actor.

An invoked actor is an actor that can execute its own actions and communicate with the machine. These invoked actors are started in a state and stopped when the state is exited.

:::tip

Watch our [“What are invoked actors?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRMS8NYKWnA&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=9) (1m57s).

:::

## Using actors in Stately Studio

[Read about using invoked actors in Stately Studio](invoke.mdx#using-invoked-actors-in-stately-studio).

## Actor model

In the actor model, actors are objects that can talk to each other. They are independent computational entities that communicate via asynchronous message passing (XState refers to these messages as "events").

- An actor has its own internal, encapsulated state that can only be updated by the actor itself. An actor may choose to update its internal state in response to a message it receives, but it cannot be updated by any other entity.
- Actors communicate with other actors by sending and receiving events asynchronously.
- Actors process one message at a time. They have an internal "mailbox" that acts like an event queue, processing events one at a time.
- State is not shared between actors. The only way for an actor to share data is by sending events.
- Actors can spawn new actors.

## Creating actors

- `interpret(machine, options)`
- Starting actors via `actor.start()`
- Stopping system actor via `actor.stop()`

Inside machines:

- [invoke](invoke.mdx)
- [spawn](spawn.mdx)

## Actor snapshots

- `actor.getSnapshot()`

## Subscribing to actors

- Subscribes to emitted actor snapshots

- `actor.subscribe(observer)`
- Plain function `(state) => { ... }`
- Observer `({ next, error, complete }) => { ... }`
- `subscription.unsubscribe()` for cleanup

## Initializing actor state

- `interpret(machine, { state }).start()`
- [Persistence](persistence.mdx)

## Awaiting actors

- `await waitFor(actor, selector)`

## State machine actors

- `createMachine({ ... })`

## Promise actors

- `fromPromise(() => new Promise(...))`

## Transition actors

- `fromTransition((state, event) => { ... }, initialState)`

## Observable actors

- `fromObservable(() => someObservable)`

## Event observable actors

- `fromEventObservable(() => someEventObservable)`

## Callback actors

- `fromCallback((sendBack, receive) => { ... })`

## Higher-level actor logic

```ts
function withUndoRedo(actorLogic) {
  return {
    ...actorLogic,
  };
}
```

## Custom actors

_Coming soon_

## Empty actors

Actor that does nothing and only has a single emitted snapshot: `undefined`

Useful for testing or when an integration (e.g. `@xstate/react`) needs an actor that may not be available yet.

```ts
const emptyActor = createEmptyActor();
```

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Add difference between invoke and spawn and cross-link relevant pages

versioned_docs/version-5/actors.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Actors'
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

When you run a state machine, it becomes an actor: a running process that can receive messages, send messages and change its behavior based on the messages it receives, which can cause effects outside of the actor.

An invoked actor is an actor that can execute its own actions and communicate with the machine. These invoked actors are started in a state and stopped when the state is exited.

A spawned actor represents multiple entities that can be started at any time and stopped at any time. 

:::tip

Watch our [“What are invoked actors?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRMS8NYKWnA&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=9) (1m57s).

:::

## Using actors in Stately Studio

[Read about using invoked actors in Stately Studio](invoke.mdx#using-invoked-actors-in-stately-studio).

## Actor model

In the actor model, actors are objects that can talk to each other. They are independent computational entities that communicate via asynchronous message passing (XState refers to these messages as "events").

- An actor has its own internal, encapsulated state that can only be updated by the actor itself. An actor may choose to update its internal state in response to a message it receives, but it cannot be updated by any other entity.
- Actors communicate with other actors by sending and receiving events asynchronously.
- Actors process one message at a time. They have an internal "mailbox" that acts like an event queue, processing events one at a time.
- State is not shared between actors. The only way for an actor to share data is by sending events.
- Actors can spawn new actors.

## Creating actors

- `interpret(machine, options)`
- Starting actors via `actor.start()`
- Stopping system actor via `actor.stop()`

### Invoking and spawning actors

An invoked actor represents a state-based actor, so it is stopped when the invoking state is exited. Invoked actors are used for a finite/known number of actors.

A spawned actor represents multiple entities that can be started at any time and stopped at any time. Spawed actors are action-based and used for a dynamic or unknown number of actors.

An example of the difference between invoking and spawning actors could occur in a todo app. When saving todos, a `saveTodos` actor would be an invoked actor; it represents a state-based task. In comparison, each of the `n` todos can themselves be spawned actors.

- [Read more about invoking actors](invoke.mdx)
- [Read more about spawning actors](spawn.mdx)

## Actor snapshots

- `actor.getSnapshot()`

## Subscribing to actors

- Subscribes to emitted actor snapshots

- `actor.subscribe(observer)`
- Plain function `(state) => { ... }`
- Observer `({ next, error, complete }) => { ... }`
- `subscription.unsubscribe()` for cleanup

## Initializing actor state

- `interpret(machine, { state }).start()`
- [Persistence](persistence.mdx)

## Awaiting actors

- `await waitFor(actor, selector)`

## State machine actors

- `createMachine({ ... })`

## Promise actors

- `fromPromise(() => new Promise(...))`

## Transition actors

- `fromTransition((state, event) => { ... }, initialState)`

## Observable actors

- `fromObservable(() => someObservable)`

## Event observable actors

- `fromEventObservable(() => someEventObservable)`

## Callback actors

- `fromCallback((sendBack, receive) => { ... })`

## Higher-level actor logic

```ts
function withUndoRedo(actorLogic) {
  return {
    ...actorLogic,
  };
}
```

## Custom actors

_Coming soon_

## Empty actors

Actor that does nothing and only has a single emitted snapshot: `undefined`

Useful for testing or when an integration (e.g. `@xstate/react`) needs an actor that may not be available yet.

```ts
const emptyActor = createEmptyActor();
```

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
