versioned_docs/version-5/delayed-transitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Delayed (after) transitions
---

**Delayed transitions** are transitions that only happen after a set amount of time. Delayed transitions are handy for building timeouts and intervals into your application logic. If another event occurs before the end of the timer, the transition doesn’t complete.

Delayed transitions are defined on the `after` property in milliseconds. They are often referred to as “after” transitions.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const pushTheButtonGame = createMachine({
  initial: 'waitingForButtonPush',
  states: {
    waitingForButtonPush: {
      // highlight-start
      after: {
        5000: {
          target: 'timedOut',
          actions: 'logThatYouGotTimedOut',
        },
      },
      // highlight-end
      on: {
        PUSH_BUTTON: {
          actions: 'logSuccess',
          target: 'success',
        },
      },
    },
    success: {},
    timedOut: {},
  },
});
```

:::tip

Watch our [“Delayed (after) transitions” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RE_eazRhrw&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=12) (1m17s).

:::

<SkipDownLink
  text="Jump to learning more about delays in XState"
  link="#delays"
/>

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=5671366b-05cf-43f5-a09a-b88373ea27c1).

In a video player, want the video to be *Closed* out of fullscreen mode a few seconds after the video has *Stopped*, instead of closing the fullscreen mode suddenly as soon as the video is stopped. The eventless transition above transitions from the *Stopped* state to the *Closed* state after 5 seconds.

## Using delayed transitions in Stately Studio

In Stately Studio, delayed transitions are labeled “after.”

### Make an event into a delayed transition

First, select the event you want to replace with a delayed transition. Then…

#### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the event to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **After** from the **Event type** options.
3. Use the **Transition details** panel to change the delay time.

#### Using the **Transition details** panel

1. Open the **Transition details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Choose **After** from the **Event type** dropdown menu.
3. Specify the delay time in milliseconds using the **Delay** text input.

---

## Delays

You can define delays in a few ways: [inlined](#inlined-delays), [referenced](#referenced-delays), and [as an expression](#delay-expressions).

### Inlined delays

You can define an inlined delay by specifying the delay time (in milliseconds) directly:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      after: {
        1000: { target: 'nextState' },
      },
    },
    nextState: {},
  },
});
```

This will transition to the `nextState` state after 1000ms.

### Referenced delays

You can also define referenced delays by specifying a string delay key, and providing the actual delay time separately.

For example:

```ts
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        after: {
          timeout: { target: 'nextState' },
        },
      },
      nextState: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    delays: {
      timeout: 1000,
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

### Delay expressions

The delay option can be evaluated as a delay expression. The delay expression function takes in an object that contains `context` and `event` properties and returns the resolved `delay` (in milliseconds).

```ts
`after: [{ delay: () => 1000, target: ... }]`;
```

## Lifecycle

Delayed transition timers are canceled when the state is exited.

## Testing

- Simulated clock

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

Use our XState delayed transitions cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

```ts
createMachine({
  after: {
    DELAY: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
}).provide({
  delays: {
    DELAY: 1000, // or expression
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Update delayed transitions docs for blocks
Closes STA-4116

versioned_docs/version-5/delayed-transitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Delayed (after) transitions
---

**Delayed transitions** are transitions that only happen after a set amount of time. Delayed transitions are handy for building timeouts and intervals into your application logic. If another event occurs before the end of the timer, the transition doesn’t complete.

Delayed transitions are defined on the `after` property in milliseconds. They are often referred to as “after” transitions.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const pushTheButtonGame = createMachine({
  initial: 'waitingForButtonPush',
  states: {
    waitingForButtonPush: {
      // highlight-start
      after: {
        5000: {
          target: 'timedOut',
          actions: 'logThatYouGotTimedOut',
        },
      },
      // highlight-end
      on: {
        PUSH_BUTTON: {
          actions: 'logSuccess',
          target: 'success',
        },
      },
    },
    success: {},
    timedOut: {},
  },
});
```

:::tip

Watch our [“Delayed (after) transitions” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RE_eazRhrw&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=12) (1m17s).

:::

<SkipDownLink
  text="Jump to learning more about delays in XState"
  link="#delays"
/>

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=5671366b-05cf-43f5-a09a-b88373ea27c1).

In a video player, want the video to be *Closed* out of fullscreen mode a few seconds after the video has *Stopped*, instead of closing the fullscreen mode suddenly as soon as the video is stopped. The eventless transition above transitions from the *Stopped* state to the *Closed* state after 5 seconds.

## Using delayed transitions in Stately Studio

In Stately Studio, delayed transitions are labeled “after.”

### Make an event into a delayed transition

Delayed transitions have a default time interval of 500ms (0.5 seconds).

#### Using the edit menu

1. Select the event you want to replace with a delayed transition.
1. Right-click the event to bring up the edit menu.
2. From the **Event type** options, choose **After** to turn the event into a delayed transition.

#### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. From the **Event type** dropdown menu, choose **After** to turn the event into a delayed transition.

#### Specify delay time 

Your delay time interval will be displayed in a human-readable format on the canvas. For example, 15000ms will be displayed as 15 seconds.

1. Select the delayed transition.
2. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **Delay** text input to specify the interval in milliseconds.

---

## Delays

You can define delays in a few ways: [inlined](#inlined-delays), [referenced](#referenced-delays), and [as an expression](#delay-expressions).

### Inlined delays

You can define an inlined delay by specifying the delay time (in milliseconds) directly:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      after: {
        1000: { target: 'nextState' },
      },
    },
    nextState: {},
  },
});
```

This will transition to the `nextState` state after 1000ms.

### Referenced delays

You can also define referenced delays by specifying a string delay key, and providing the actual delay time separately.

For example:

```ts
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        after: {
          timeout: { target: 'nextState' },
        },
      },
      nextState: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    delays: {
      timeout: 1000,
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

### Delay expressions

The delay option can be evaluated as a delay expression. The delay expression function takes in an object that contains `context` and `event` properties and returns the resolved `delay` (in milliseconds).

```ts
`after: [{ delay: () => 1000, target: ... }]`;
```

## Lifecycle

Delayed transition timers are canceled when the state is exited.

## Testing

- Simulated clock

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

Use our XState delayed transitions cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

```ts
createMachine({
  after: {
    DELAY: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
}).provide({
  delays: {
    DELAY: 1000, // or expression
  },
});
```
