versioned_docs/version-5/design-mode.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Design mode'
description: 'Tour the features in Stately editor’s Design mode, including a guide to all the panels and how to use the editor.'
---

![Numbered screenshot of Stately editor’s Design mode features. Described by list below.](#)

1. [Stately icon] Editor menu: access common Stately shortcuts and view options.
2. [Left drawer icon] Left drawer switch: open and close the left drawer which contains the machines list (8) and tree view (9).
3. Breadcrumb: Your current project and machine.
4. Design/Simulate switch: Switch between Design and Simulate mode.
5. Share button: Open the share options.
6. [Export icon] Export button: open quick export options.
7. User button: Open the user menu.
8. Machines list (left drawer): List of machines in your current project.
9. Tree view (left drawer): Tree view of your current machine.
10. Canvas
11. Right toolbox: Contextual menu which shows [Details icon] Details of current item highlighted on canvas.
12. Zoom options: Undo/redo and zoom options for the canvas.
13. [Help icon] Help button: open and close the help drawer.

Commit message:

Add labelled screenshot to give brief tour of design mode

versioned_docs/version-5/design-mode.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Design mode'
description: 'Tour the features in Stately editor’s Design mode, including a guide to all the panels and how to use the editor.'
---

Design your state machine flows in Design Mode.

You can add new [states](states.mdx) by double-clicking anywhere on the canvas, and add [transitions and events](transitions.mdx) from the handles on each side of the states.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Numbered screenshot of Stately editor’s Design mode features. Described by list below."
    sources={{
      light: '/design-mode/design-mode-signed-in.png',
      dark: '/design-mode/design-mode-signed-in-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

1. **Editor menu**: access common Stately shortcuts and view options.
2. **<PanelLeft size={18} /> Left drawer switch**: open and close the left drawer which contains the machines list (8) and tree view (9).
3. **Breadcrumb**: Your current [project](projects.mdx) and machine.
4. **Design/Simulate** switch: Switch between Design and [Simulate mode](simulate-mode.mdx).
5. **Share** button: Open the share options.
6. **<Code size={18} /> Export** button: open quick [export options](export-as-code.mdx).
7. **User** button: Open the [user menu](user-preferences.mdx).
8. **Machines list** (left drawer): List of machines in your current project.
9. **Tree view** (left drawer): Tree view of your current machine.
10. **Canvas**
11. **Right toolbox**: Contextual menu which shows <Info size={18} /> Details of current item highlighted on canvas.
12. **[Canvas view controls](canvas-view-controls.mdx)**: Undo/redo and zoom options for the canvas.
13. **<HelpCircle size={18} /> Help** button: open and close the help drawer.
