versioned_docs/version-5/embed.mdx, before:

---
title: Embed machines using their embed URL
---

import EmbedMachine from '@site/src/components/EmbedMachine';

You can embed your machines anywhere that supports [`<iframe>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe). Embed mode is a focused non-editable view of your machine in Stately Studio’s editor, which can be zoomed and panned.

We love to use embedded machines in our docs! Below is an example of an embedded machine:

<EmbedMachine
  name="Embed feature machine"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/9e7f6b1e-416a-491f-a4a0-bba386a02d8d?mode=Design&machineId=e94d5674-7ab7-4a4e-b7a8-781609bfe523"
/>

Your machine will only be embeddable if:

- the project visibility is **public**
- the project visibility is **unlisted**

Embed URLs are not available for private machines.

Read [how to change a project’s visibility settings](projects.mdx#change-a-projects-visibility).

:::tip

You can also [get your machine as an image](image.mdx) for platforms where `<iframe>` is not supported.

:::

## Copy the embed URL

1. Use the **Share** button in Stately Studio’s top bar to open the Share dialog.
2. Use the **Copy embed URL** button to copy the machine’s embed URL to your clipboard.
3. Use the embed URL in an `<iframe>` to embed the machine anywhere that supports iframes. [Find some example code below](#example-iframe-code).

## Example `<iframe>` code

The following HTML embeds the same machine at the top of this page in dark mode:

```html
<iframe
  loading="lazy"
  src="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/9e7f6b1e-416a-491f-a4a0-bba386a02d8d?mode=Design&machineId=e94d5674-7ab7-4a4e-b7a8-781609bfe523&colorMode=dark"
  style="display: block; width: 100%; aspect-ratio: 6 / 4;"
>
  <a
    href="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/9e7f6b1e-416a-491f-a4a0-bba386a02d8d?mode=Design&machineId=e94d5674-7ab7-4a4e-b7a8-781609bfe523"
  >
    View the <em>Embed feature machine</em> machine in Stately Studio </a
  >.
</iframe>
```

:::note

In the future, we plan to provide configurable embeds with copy-and-paste code.

If you want us to prioritize improving embed mode, please [upvote it on our feedback page](https://feedback.stately.ai/editor/p/improve-embed-mode).

:::

## URL parameters, including color mode

The embed URL has some of the same parameters as the [machine URL](url.mdx).

- **machineId**: the unique ID for the machine. For example, `machineId=491a4c60-5300-4e22-92cf-8a32a8ffffca`
- **mode**: the current machine mode. For example, `mode=Design` or `mode=Simulate`
- **colorMode**: the color mode for the embedded machine. For example, `colorMode=light` or `colorMode=dark`

By default, the color mode will be the same as your chosen Stately Studio color mode. Add `&colorMode=light` or `&colorMode=dark` to the URL to force that color mode.

Commit message:

Add description to improve appearance on index page

versioned_docs/version-5/embed.mdx, after:

---
title: Embed machines using their embed URL
description: You can embed your machines anywhere that supports iframes. Embed mode is a focused non-editable view of your machine in Stately Studio’s editor, which can be zoomed and panned.
---

import EmbedMachine from '@site/src/components/EmbedMachine';

You can embed your machines anywhere that supports [`<iframe>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe). Embed mode is a focused non-editable view of your machine in Stately Studio’s editor, which can be zoomed and panned.

We love to use embedded machines in our docs! Below is an example of an embedded machine:

<EmbedMachine
  name="Embed feature machine"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/9e7f6b1e-416a-491f-a4a0-bba386a02d8d?mode=Design&machineId=e94d5674-7ab7-4a4e-b7a8-781609bfe523"
/>

Your machine will only be embeddable if:

- the project visibility is **public**
- the project visibility is **unlisted**

Embed URLs are not available for private machines.

Read [how to change a project’s visibility settings](projects.mdx#change-a-projects-visibility).

:::tip

You can also [get your machine as an image](image.mdx) for platforms where `<iframe>` is not supported.

:::

## Copy the embed URL

1. Use the **Share** button in Stately Studio’s top bar to open the Share dialog.
2. Use the **Copy embed URL** button to copy the machine’s embed URL to your clipboard.
3. Use the embed URL in an `<iframe>` to embed the machine anywhere that supports iframes. [Find some example code below](#example-iframe-code).

## Example `<iframe>` code

The following HTML embeds the same machine at the top of this page in dark mode:

```html
<iframe
  loading="lazy"
  src="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/9e7f6b1e-416a-491f-a4a0-bba386a02d8d?mode=Design&machineId=e94d5674-7ab7-4a4e-b7a8-781609bfe523&colorMode=dark"
  style="display: block; width: 100%; aspect-ratio: 6 / 4;"
>
  <a
    href="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/9e7f6b1e-416a-491f-a4a0-bba386a02d8d?mode=Design&machineId=e94d5674-7ab7-4a4e-b7a8-781609bfe523"
  >
    View the <em>Embed feature machine</em> machine in Stately Studio </a
  >.
</iframe>
```

:::note

In the future, we plan to provide configurable embeds with copy-and-paste code.

If you want us to prioritize improving embed mode, please [upvote it on our feedback page](https://feedback.stately.ai/editor/p/improve-embed-mode).

:::

## URL parameters, including color mode

The embed URL has some of the same parameters as the [machine URL](url.mdx).

- **machineId**: the unique ID for the machine. For example, `machineId=491a4c60-5300-4e22-92cf-8a32a8ffffca`
- **mode**: the current machine mode. For example, `mode=Design` or `mode=Simulate`
- **colorMode**: the color mode for the embedded machine. For example, `colorMode=light` or `colorMode=dark`

By default, the color mode will be the same as your chosen Stately Studio color mode. Add `&colorMode=light` or `&colorMode=dark` to the URL to force that color mode.
