versioned_docs/version-5/eventless-transitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Eventless (always) transitions
---

import SkipDownLink from '@site/src/components/SkipDownLink';

**Eventless transitions** are transitions that happen without an explicit event. These transitions are *always* taken when the transition is enabled.

Eventless transitions are labeled “always” and often referred to as “always” transitions.

```ts
{
  states: {
    form: {
      initial: 'valid',
      states: {
        valid: {},
        invalid: {}
      },
      always: {
        guard: 'isValid',
        target: 'valid',
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<SkipDownLink text="Jump to learning more about eventless transitions in XState" link="#eventless-transitions-and-guards"/>

## Using eventless transitions in Stately Studio

### Make an event into an eventless transition

First, select the event you want to replace with an eventless transition. Then…

#### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **Always** from the **Event type** options.

#### Using the **Transition details** panel

1. Open the **Transition details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Choose **Always** from the **Event type** dropdown menu.

## Eventless transitions and guards

Eventless transitions are taken immediately after normal transitions are taken. They are only taken if enabled, for example, if their [guards](guards.mdx) are true. This makes eventless transitions helpful in doing things when some condition is true.

## Avoid infinite loops

:::warningxstate

Since unguarded “always” transitions always run, you should be careful not to create an infinite loop.

:::

Eventless transitions with no `target` nor `guard` will cause an infinite loop. Transitions using `guard` and `actions` may run into an infinite loop if its `guard` keeps returning true.

You should define eventless transitions either with:

- `target`
- `guard` + `target`
- `guard` + `actions`
- `guard` + `target` + `actions`

If `target` is declared, the value should differ from the current state node.

Coming soon… example `{ always: { ... } }`

## When to use

Eventless transitions can be helpful when a state change is necessary, but there is no specific trigger for that change.

Coming soon… examples

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Update the eventless transition docs for blocks
Closes STA-4114

Also replace instances of “bring up” with “open.” Not sure what was wrong with me when I wrote that.

versioned_docs/version-5/eventless-transitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Eventless (always) transitions
---

import SkipDownLink from '@site/src/components/SkipDownLink';

**Eventless transitions** are transitions that happen without an explicit event. These transitions are *always* taken when the transition is enabled.

Eventless transitions are labeled “always” and often referred to as “always” transitions.

```ts
{
  states: {
    form: {
      initial: 'valid',
      states: {
        valid: {},
        invalid: {}
      },
      always: {
        guard: 'isValid',
        target: 'valid',
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<SkipDownLink text="Jump to learning more about eventless transitions in XState" link="#eventless-transitions-and-guards"/>

## Using eventless transitions in Stately Studio

### Make an event into an eventless transition

First, select the event you want to replace with an eventless transition. Then…

#### Using the edit menu

1. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
2. From the **Event type** options, choose **Always** to turn the event into an eventless transition.

#### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. From the **Event type** dropdown menu, choose **Always** to turn the event into an eventless transition.

## Eventless transitions and guards

Eventless transitions are taken immediately after normal transitions are taken. They are only taken if enabled, for example, if their [guards](guards.mdx) are true. This makes eventless transitions helpful in doing things when some condition is true.

## Avoid infinite loops

:::warningxstate

Since unguarded “always” transitions always run, you should be careful not to create an infinite loop.

:::

Eventless transitions with no `target` nor `guard` will cause an infinite loop. Transitions using `guard` and `actions` may run into an infinite loop if its `guard` keeps returning true.

You should define eventless transitions either with:

- `target`
- `guard` + `target`
- `guard` + `actions`
- `guard` + `target` + `actions`

If `target` is declared, the value should differ from the current state node.

Coming soon… example `{ always: { ... } }`

## When to use

Eventless transitions can be helpful when a state change is necessary, but there is no specific trigger for that change.

Coming soon… examples

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
