versioned_docs/version-5/export-as-code.mdx, before:

---
title: Export as code
---

import { Code, MoreHorizontal, ShareIcon, Upload } from 'lucide-react';

Exporting as code is useful if you want to use your machine with [XState](xstate.mdx) inside your codebase or if you want to duplicate your machine without using **Fork**.

You can currently export your machine as JSON, JavaScript, and TypeScript code using the code panel in the right tool menu. You can also export as code from the **Export machine** dialog using the export icon button in the editor’s top bar.

## Export code from the code panel

![Simplified drawing of the Stately Studio architecture described above.](/export_from_code_panel.png)

1. Open the <Code size={18} /> **Code** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Use the JSON, JavaScript, or TypeScript buttons to display the code in your preferred format in the text area.
3. Use the **Copy** button to copy the code to your clipboard.
4. Paste into your code editor.

## Export code using the header export icon

![Simplified drawing of the Stately Studio architecture described above.](/export_from_top_bar.png)

1. Open the export **Code** modal using the <Upload size={18} /> export icon in the header.
2. Use the JSON, JavaScript, or TypeScript button to copy the code in your preferred format to your clipboard.
3. Paste into your code editor.

## Export code from the machine menu

![Simplified drawing of the Stately Studio architecture described above.](/export_from_machine_list.png)

1. Open the machine menu by clicking the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> ellipsis button to the right of the machine name.
2. Click the <ShareIcon size={18} /> **Export code** button in the menu to open the **Export machine** dialog.
3. Use the JSON, JavaScript, or TypeScript button to copy the code in your preferred format to your clipboard.
4. Paste into your code editor.

Commit message:

Optimize large images and fix a few alt tags (#144)
* optimize large images and fix a few alt tags

* fix link

* Update docs/export-as-code.mdx

Co-authored-by: Laura Kalbag <me@laurakalbag.com>

* Update versioned_docs/version-5/export-as-code.mdx

Co-authored-by: Laura Kalbag <me@laurakalbag.com>

* Update versioned_docs/version-5/export-as-code.mdx

Co-authored-by: Laura Kalbag <me@laurakalbag.com>

* Update versioned_docs/version-5/export-as-code.mdx

Co-authored-by: Laura Kalbag <me@laurakalbag.com>

* Update docs/export-as-code.mdx

Co-authored-by: Laura Kalbag <me@laurakalbag.com>

* Update docs/export-as-code.mdx

Co-authored-by: Laura Kalbag <me@laurakalbag.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Laura Kalbag <me@laurakalbag.com>

versioned_docs/version-5/export-as-code.mdx, after:

---
title: Export as code
---

Exporting as code is useful if you want to use your machine with [XState](xstate.mdx) inside your codebase or if you want to duplicate your machine without using **Fork**.

You can currently export your machine as JSON, JavaScript, and TypeScript code using the code panel in the right tool menu. You can also export as code from the **Export machine** dialog using the export icon button in the editor’s top bar.

## Export code from the code panel

![Stately Studio with the export from code icon highlighted in the toolbox and the code panel open.](/export_from_code_panel.jpg)

1. Open the <Code size={18} /> **Code** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Use the JSON, JavaScript, or TypeScript buttons to display the code in your preferred format in the text area.
3. Use the **Copy** button to copy the code to your clipboard.
4. Paste into your code editor.

## Export code using the header export icon

![Stately Studio with the export icon highlighted in the top bar and the export code modal open.](/export_from_top_bar.jpg)

1. Open the export **Code** modal using the <Upload size={18} /> export icon in the header.
2. Use the JSON, JavaScript, or TypeScript button to copy the code in your preferred format to your clipboard.
3. Paste into your code editor.

## Export code from the machine menu

![Stately Studio with the export code item highlighted in the machine list’s context menu.](/export_from_machine_list.jpg)

1. Open the machine menu by clicking the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> ellipsis button to the right of the machine name.
2. Click the <ShareIcon size={18} /> **Export code** button in the menu to open the **Export machine** dialog.
3. Use the JSON, JavaScript, or TypeScript button to copy the code in your preferred format to your clipboard.
4. Paste into your code editor.
