versioned_docs/version-5/final-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Final states
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

A final state is a state that represents the completion or successful termination of a machine. It is defined by the `type: 'final'` property on a state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // highlight-start
    closed: {
      type: 'final',
    },
    // highlight-end
    // ...
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      target: '.closed',
    },
  },
});
```

When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. The box with a surrounding border icon represents the final state.

A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

- A state machine can have zero or more final states. Some machines may run indefinitely and not need to terminate.
- Final states can have `output` data, which is sent to the parent machine when the machine terminates.
- When a machine reaches a top-level final state, it terminates.
- Final states cannot have transitions

## Editor: using final states

In the video player below, *Stopped* is the final child state in the *Opened* state. When the video player is *Stopped*, the video player moves to its *Closed* state.

:::tip

Watch our [“What are final states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqW8Gz4NYDc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=7) (55s).

:::

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped, represented by an icon alongside the Stopped label of a square with a double border. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/c6f8ca35-25e3-4fc6-b4fe-c9994715852e.light.png',
      dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/c6f8ca35-25e3-4fc6-b4fe-c9994715852e.dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=c6f8ca35-25e3-4fc6-b4fe-c9994715852e).

### Make a state a final state

First, select the state you want to set as the final state.

#### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **Final** from the **Type** options.

#### Using the **State details** panel

1. Select the state you want to set as the final state.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose **Final** from the **Type** dropdown menu.

## Top-level final states

A top-level final state is a final state that is a direct child state of the machine. When the machine reaches a top-level final state, the machine will terminate. When a machine terminates, it can no longer receive events nor transition.

## Child final states

When a child final state of a compound state is reached, that compound state is considered "done". The `onDone` transition of that compound state is taken.

## Final states in parallel states

When all regions of a parallel state are "done", the parallel state is considered "done". The `onDone` transition of the parallel state is taken.

## Output

Done data, specified on `output`

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Replace themed images with machine embeds

versioned_docs/version-5/final-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Final states
---

import EmbedMachine from '@site/src/components/EmbedMachine';

A final state is a state that represents the completion or successful termination of a machine. It is defined by the `type: 'final'` property on a state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // highlight-start
    closed: {
      type: 'final',
    },
    // highlight-end
    // ...
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      target: '.closed',
    },
  },
});
```

When a machine reaches the final state, it can no longer receive any events, and anything running inside it is canceled and cleaned up. The box with a surrounding border icon represents the final state.

A machine can have multiple final states or no final states.

- A state machine can have zero or more final states. Some machines may run indefinitely and not need to terminate.
- Final states can have `output` data, which is sent to the parent machine when the machine terminates.
- When a machine reaches a top-level final state, it terminates.
- Final states cannot have transitions

<EmbedMachine name="Video player" embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=c6f8ca35-25e3-4fc6-b4fe-c9994715852e" />

## Using final states in Stately Studio

In the video player above, *Stopped* is the final child state in the *Opened* state. When the video player is *Stopped*, the video player moves to its *Closed* state.

:::tip

Watch our [“What are final states?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqW8Gz4NYDc&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=7) (55s).

:::

### Make a state a final state

First, select the state you want to set as the final state.

#### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the state to bring up the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **Final** from the **Type** options.

#### Using the **State details** panel

1. Select the state you want to set as the final state.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Choose **Final** from the **Type** dropdown menu.

## Top-level final states

A top-level final state is a final state that is a direct child state of the machine. When the machine reaches a top-level final state, the machine will terminate. When a machine terminates, it can no longer receive events nor transition.

## Child final states

When a child final state of a compound state is reached, that compound state is considered "done". The `onDone` transition of that compound state is taken.

## Final states in parallel states

When all regions of a parallel state are "done", the parallel state is considered "done". The `onDone` transition of the parallel state is taken.

## Output

Done data, specified on `output`

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
