versioned_docs/version-5/finite-states.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Finite states'
---

A finite state is one of the possible states that a state machine can be in at any given time. It's called "finite" because there should be a limited number of possible states that the machine can be in. Finite states define how a machine "behaves" when in a state; e.g. a status or a mode. They represent how a machine "behaves" when in a state; e.g. a status or a mode; a machine can behave differently depending what state it is in.

For example in a feedback form, you can be in a state where you are filling out the form, or a state where the form is being submitted. You cannot be filling out the form and submitting it at the same time; this is an "impossible state".

TODO: add links below

State machines always start at an [initial state](initial-states.mdx), and may end at a [final state](final-states.mdx). The state machine is always in a finite state.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',

  // Initial state
  initial: 'prompt',

  // Finite states
  states: {
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
    form: {
      /* ... */
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    closed: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
});
```

TODO: add link below

You can combine finite states with [context](#), which make up the overall state of a machine:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',
  context: {
    name: '',
    email: '',
    feedback: '',
  },

  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine).start();

// Finite state
console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs 'prompt'

// Context ("extended state")
console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().context);
// logs { name: '', email: '', feedback: '' }
```

TODO: `.getSnapshot()` and show `.value` and `.context`

## Stately Studio’s editor: finite states

- set initial state
- change initial states
- unreachable states
- states with same key

TODO: image

## Initial state

The initial state is the state that the machine starts in. It is defined by the `initial` property on the machine config:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',

  // highlight-start
  // Initial state
  initial: 'prompt',
  // highlight-end

  // Finite states
  states: {
    // highlight-next-line
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

## State nodes

A state node is a finite state that is defined by the `states` property on a machine config:

## Tags

## Meta

## Transitions

Transitions are how you move from one finite state to another. They are defined by the `on` property on a state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          target: 'thanks',
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // ...
  },
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine).start();

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs 'prompt'

feedbackActor.send({ type: 'feedback.good' });

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs 'thanks'
```

Read more about [events and transitions](transitions.mdx).

## Targets

A transition's `target` property defines where the machine should go when the transition is taken. Normally, it targets a sibling state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          // highlight-start
          // Targets the sibling `thanks` state node
          target: 'thanks',
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

The `target` can also target a descendant of a sibling state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          // highlight-start
          // Targets the sibling `thanks.happy` state node
          target: 'thanks.happy',
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      initial: 'normal',
      states: {
        normal: {},
        // highlight-next-line
        happy: {},
      },
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

When the target state node is a descendant of the source state node, the source state node key can be omitted:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    closed: {
      initial: 'normal',
      states: {
        normal: {},
        keypress: {},
      },
    },
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      // highlight-start
      // Targets the descendant `closed` state node
      target: '.closed',
      // highlight-end
    },
    'key.escape': {
      // highlight-start
      // Targets the descendant `closed.keypress` state node
      target: '.closed.keypress',
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

When the state node doesn't change; i.e., the source and target state nodes are the same, the `target` property can be omitted:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    form: {
      on: {
        'feedback.update': {
          // highlight-start
          // No target defined – stay on the `form` state node
          // Equivalent to `target: '.form'` or `target: undefined`
          // highlight-end
          actions: 'updateForm',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

State nodes can also be targeted by their `id` by prefixing the `target` with a `#` followed by the state node's `id`:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    closed: {
      id: 'finished',
    },
    // highlight-end
    // ...
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      // highlight-next-line
      target: '#finished',
    },
  },
});
```

TODO: add link below

See [identifying states](#) for more information.

## Identifying state nodes

States can be identified with a unique ID: `id: 'myState'`. This is useful for targeting a state from any other state, even if they have different parent states:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    // ...
    closed: {
      // highlight-next-line
      id: 'finished',
      type: 'final',
    },
    // ...
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      // highlight-start
      // Target the `.closed` state by its ID
      target: '#finished',
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

State IDs do not affect the `state.value`. In the above example, the `state.value` would still be `closed` even though the state node is identified as `#finished`.

## Other state types

In statecharts, there are other types of states:

- Compound states (link)
- Parallel states (link)
- History states (link)
- Final states (link)

## Modeling states

- Start simple and shallow. Don't create multiple finite states until it becomes apparent that the behavior of your logic differs depending on some finite state it can be in.
- Can model choice pseudostates

## TypeScript

## Cheatsheet

## Resources

Commit message:

More v5 docs content (#89)
* Flesh out eventless transitions page more

* Add more to delayed transitions page

* Replace todos with coming soon and add URLs for all todo URLs

* Remove redundant headings and add coming soon under todo headings

* Fix broken link

versioned_docs/version-5/finite-states.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Finite states'
---

A finite state is one of the possible states that a state machine can be in at any given time. It's called "finite" because there should be a limited number of possible states that the machine can be in. Finite states define how a machine "behaves" when in a state; e.g. a status or a mode. They represent how a machine "behaves" when in a state; e.g. a status or a mode; a machine can behave differently depending what state it is in.

For example in a feedback form, you can be in a state where you are filling out the form, or a state where the form is being submitted. You cannot be filling out the form and submitting it at the same time; this is an "impossible state".

State machines always start at an [initial state](initial-states.mdx), and may end at a [final state](final-states.mdx). The state machine is always in a finite state.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',

  // Initial state
  initial: 'prompt',

  // Finite states
  states: {
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
    form: {
      /* ... */
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    closed: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
});
```

You can combine finite states with [context](context.mdx), which make up the overall state of a machine:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',
  context: {
    name: '',
    email: '',
    feedback: '',
  },

  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine).start();

// Finite state
console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs 'prompt'

// Context ("extended state")
console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().context);
// logs { name: '', email: '', feedback: '' }
```

Coming soon… `.getSnapshot()` and show `.value` and `.context`

## Finite states in Stately Studio

- Coming soon… set initial state
- Coming soon… change initial states
- Coming soon… unreachable states
- Coming soon… states with same key

Coming soon… image

## Initial state

The initial state is the state that the machine starts in. It is defined by the `initial` property on the machine config:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',

  // highlight-start
  // Initial state
  initial: 'prompt',
  // highlight-end

  // Finite states
  states: {
    // highlight-next-line
    prompt: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

## State nodes

A state node is a finite state that is defined by the `states` property on a machine config:

## Tags

_Coming soon_

## Meta

_Coming soon_

## Transitions

Transitions are how you move from one finite state to another. They are defined by the `on` property on a state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          target: 'thanks',
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // ...
  },
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine).start();

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs 'prompt'

feedbackActor.send({ type: 'feedback.good' });

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs 'thanks'
```

Read more about [events and transitions](transitions.mdx).

## Targets

A transition's `target` property defines where the machine should go when the transition is taken. Normally, it targets a sibling state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          // highlight-start
          // Targets the sibling `thanks` state node
          target: 'thanks',
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      /* ... */
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

The `target` can also target a descendant of a sibling state node:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          // highlight-start
          // Targets the sibling `thanks.happy` state node
          target: 'thanks.happy',
          // highlight-end
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      initial: 'normal',
      states: {
        normal: {},
        // highlight-next-line
        happy: {},
      },
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

When the target state node is a descendant of the source state node, the source state node key can be omitted:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    closed: {
      initial: 'normal',
      states: {
        normal: {},
        keypress: {},
      },
    },
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      // highlight-start
      // Targets the descendant `closed` state node
      target: '.closed',
      // highlight-end
    },
    'key.escape': {
      // highlight-start
      // Targets the descendant `closed.keypress` state node
      target: '.closed.keypress',
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

When the state node doesn't change; i.e., the source and target state nodes are the same, the `target` property can be omitted:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    form: {
      on: {
        'feedback.update': {
          // highlight-start
          // No target defined – stay on the `form` state node
          // Equivalent to `target: '.form'` or `target: undefined`
          // highlight-end
          actions: 'updateForm',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

State nodes can also be targeted by their `id` by prefixing the `target` with a `#` followed by the state node's `id`:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    closed: {
      id: 'finished',
    },
    // highlight-end
    // ...
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      // highlight-next-line
      target: '#finished',
    },
  },
});
```

## Identifying state nodes

States can be identified with a unique ID: `id: 'myState'`. This is useful for targeting a state from any other state, even if they have different parent states:

```ts
import { createMachine, interpret } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    // ...
    closed: {
      // highlight-next-line
      id: 'finished',
      type: 'final',
    },
    // ...
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.close': {
      // highlight-start
      // Target the `.closed` state by its ID
      target: '#finished',
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

State IDs do not affect the `state.value`. In the above example, the `state.value` would still be `closed` even though the state node is identified as `#finished`.

## Other state types

In statecharts, there are other types of states:

- Compound states (link)
- Parallel states (link)
- History states (link)
- Final states (link)

## Modeling states

- Start simple and shallow. Don't create multiple finite states until it becomes apparent that the behavior of your logic differs depending on some finite state it can be in.
- Can model choice pseudostates

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
