versioned_docs/version-5/input.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Input'
---

Input refers to the data provided to a state machine that influences its behavior. In [XState](xstate.mdx), you provide input when creating an [actor](actors.mdx) using the second argument of the `interpret(machine, { input })` function:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    userId: input.userId,
    feedback: '',
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
  // ...
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
  // highlight-end
});
```

:::studio

Input is coming to Stately Studio’s editor soon…

:::

## Interpreting actors with input

You can pass `input` to any kind of actor by reading this input from the `input` property of the first argument to actor logic creators, such as `fromPromise()`, `fromTransition()`, `fromObservable()`, etc.:

```ts
import { interpret, fromPromise } from 'xstate';

const userFetcher = fromPromise(({ input }) => {
  return fetch(`/users/${input.userId}`).then((res) => res.json());
});

const userFetcherActor = interpret(userFetcher, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    userId: '123',
  },
  // highlight-end
}).start();

userFetcherActor.onDone((data) => {
  console.log(data);
  // logs the user data for userId 123
});
```

TODO: show examples for `fromTransition`, `fromObservable`, etc.

## Initial event input

When an actor is started, it will automatically send a special event named `xstate.init` to itself. If `input` is provided to the `interpret` function, it will be included in the `xstate.init` event:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  entry: ({ event }) => {
    console.log(event.input);
    // logs { userId: '123', defaultRating: 5 }
  },
  // highlight-end
  // ...
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
}).start();
```

## Invoking actors with input

You can provide input to invoked actors via the `input` property of the `invoke` configuration:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: 'liveFeedback',
    // highlight-start
    input: {
      domain: 'stately.ai',
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
}).provide({
  actors: {
    liveFeedback: fromPromise(({ input }) => {
      return fetch(`https://${input.domain}/feedback`).then((res) =>
        res.json()
      );
    }),
  },
});
```

The `invoke.input` property can be a static input value or a function that returns the input value. The function will be called with an object that contains the current `context` and `event`:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: '',
    feedback: '',
    rating: 0,
  },
  invoke: {
    src: 'fetchUser',
    // highlight-next-line
    input: ({ context }) => ({ userId: context.userId }),
  },
  // ...
}).provide({
  actors: {
    // highlight-start
    fetchUser: fromPromise(({ input }) => {
      return fetch(`/users/${input.userId}`).then((res) => res.json());
    }),
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

## Spawning actors with input

You can provide input to spawned actors via the `input` property of the `spawn` configuration:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: '',
    feedback: '',
    rating: 0,
    emailRef: null,
  },
  // ...
  on: {
    'feedback.submit': {
      actions: assign({
        emailRef: ({ context, spawn }) => {
          return spawn('emailUser', {
            // highlight-next-line
            input: { userId: context.userId },
          });
        },
      }),
    },
  },
  // ...
}).provide({
  actors: {
    // highlight-start
    emailUser: fromPromise(({ input }) => {
      return fetch(`/users/${input.userId}`, {
        method: 'POST',
        // ...
      });
    }),
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

## Use-cases

Input is useful for creating reusable machines that can be configured with different input values.

- Replaces the old way of writing a factory function for machines:

```ts
// Old way: using a factory function
const createFeedbackMachine = (userId, defaultRating) => {
  return createMachine({
    context: {
      userId,
      feedback: '',
      rating: defaultRating,
    },
    // ...
  });
};

const feedbackMachine1 = createFeedbackMachine('123', 5);

const feedbackActor1 = interpret(feedbackMachine1).start();

// New way: using input
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    userId: input.userId,
    feedback: '',
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
  // ...
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
});
```

- TODO: Usage with `@xstate/react`
- TODO: Usage with `@xstate/vue`
- TODO: Usage with `@xstate/svelte`
- TODO: Usage with `@xstate/solid`

TODO: Note: changing the input will not cause the actor to be restarted. You need to send an event to the actor to pass the new data to the actor:

```tsx
const Component = (props) => {
  const feedbackActor = useActor(feedbackMachine, {
    input: {
      userId: props.userId,
      defaultRating: props.defaultRating,
    },
  });

  useEffect(() => {
    feedbackActor.send({
      type: 'userId.change',
      userId: props.userId,
    });
  }, [props.userId]);

  // ...
};
```

## TypeScript

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    input: {
      userId: string;
      defaultRating: number;
    };
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

Use our XState input cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

### Providing input

```ts
const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
});
```

### Providing input to invoked actors

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: 'liveFeedback',
    input: {
      domain: 'stately.ai',
    },
  },
});
```

### Providing dynamic input to invoked actors

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: 'some-user-id',
  },
  invoke: {
    src: 'fetchUser',
    input: ({ context }) => ({ userId: context.userId }),
  },
});
```

### Providing input to spawned actors

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: '',
  },
  // ...
  on: {
    'feedback.submit': {
      actions: assign({
        emailRef: ({ context, spawn }) => {
          return spawn('emailUser', {
            input: { userId: context.userId },
          });
        },
      }),
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

## Further resources

Commit message:

More v5 docs content (#89)
* Flesh out eventless transitions page more

* Add more to delayed transitions page

* Replace todos with coming soon and add URLs for all todo URLs

* Remove redundant headings and add coming soon under todo headings

* Fix broken link

versioned_docs/version-5/input.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Input'
---

Input refers to the data provided to a state machine that influences its behavior. In [XState](xstate.mdx), you provide input when creating an [actor](actors.mdx) using the second argument of the `interpret(machine, { input })` function:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    userId: input.userId,
    feedback: '',
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
  // ...
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
  // highlight-end
});
```

:::studio

Input is coming to Stately Studio’s editor soon…

:::

## Interpreting actors with input

You can pass `input` to any kind of actor by reading this input from the `input` property of the first argument to actor logic creators, such as `fromPromise()`, `fromTransition()`, `fromObservable()`, etc.:

```ts
import { interpret, fromPromise } from 'xstate';

const userFetcher = fromPromise(({ input }) => {
  return fetch(`/users/${input.userId}`).then((res) => res.json());
});

const userFetcherActor = interpret(userFetcher, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    userId: '123',
  },
  // highlight-end
}).start();

userFetcherActor.onDone((data) => {
  console.log(data);
  // logs the user data for userId 123
});
```

Coming soon… show examples for `fromTransition`, `fromObservable`, etc.

## Initial event input

When an actor is started, it will automatically send a special event named `xstate.init` to itself. If `input` is provided to the `interpret` function, it will be included in the `xstate.init` event:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  entry: ({ event }) => {
    console.log(event.input);
    // logs { userId: '123', defaultRating: 5 }
  },
  // highlight-end
  // ...
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
}).start();
```

## Invoking actors with input

You can provide input to invoked actors via the `input` property of the `invoke` configuration:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: 'liveFeedback',
    // highlight-start
    input: {
      domain: 'stately.ai',
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
}).provide({
  actors: {
    liveFeedback: fromPromise(({ input }) => {
      return fetch(`https://${input.domain}/feedback`).then((res) =>
        res.json()
      );
    }),
  },
});
```

The `invoke.input` property can be a static input value or a function that returns the input value. The function will be called with an object that contains the current `context` and `event`:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: '',
    feedback: '',
    rating: 0,
  },
  invoke: {
    src: 'fetchUser',
    // highlight-next-line
    input: ({ context }) => ({ userId: context.userId }),
  },
  // ...
}).provide({
  actors: {
    // highlight-start
    fetchUser: fromPromise(({ input }) => {
      return fetch(`/users/${input.userId}`).then((res) => res.json());
    }),
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

## Spawning actors with input

You can provide input to spawned actors via the `input` property of the `spawn` configuration:

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: '',
    feedback: '',
    rating: 0,
    emailRef: null,
  },
  // ...
  on: {
    'feedback.submit': {
      actions: assign({
        emailRef: ({ context, spawn }) => {
          return spawn('emailUser', {
            // highlight-next-line
            input: { userId: context.userId },
          });
        },
      }),
    },
  },
  // ...
}).provide({
  actors: {
    // highlight-start
    emailUser: fromPromise(({ input }) => {
      return fetch(`/users/${input.userId}`, {
        method: 'POST',
        // ...
      });
    }),
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

## Use-cases

Input is useful for creating reusable machines that can be configured with different input values.

- Replaces the old way of writing a factory function for machines:

```ts
// Old way: using a factory function
const createFeedbackMachine = (userId, defaultRating) => {
  return createMachine({
    context: {
      userId,
      feedback: '',
      rating: defaultRating,
    },
    // ...
  });
};

const feedbackMachine1 = createFeedbackMachine('123', 5);

const feedbackActor1 = interpret(feedbackMachine1).start();

// New way: using input
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    userId: input.userId,
    feedback: '',
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
  // ...
});

const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
});
```

- Coming soon… Usage with `@xstate/react`
- Coming soon… Usage with `@xstate/vue`
- Coming soon… Usage with `@xstate/svelte`
- Coming soon… Usage with `@xstate/solid`

### Passing new data to an actor

Changing the input will not cause the actor to be restarted. You need to send an event to the actor to pass the new data to the actor:

```tsx
const Component = (props) => {
  const feedbackActor = useActor(feedbackMachine, {
    input: {
      userId: props.userId,
      defaultRating: props.defaultRating,
    },
  });

  useEffect(() => {
    feedbackActor.send({
      type: 'userId.change',
      userId: props.userId,
    });
  }, [props.userId]);

  // ...
};
```

## TypeScript

```ts
import { interpret, createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    input: {
      userId: string;
      defaultRating: number;
    };
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

Use our XState input cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

### Providing input

```ts
const feedbackActor = interpret(feedbackMachine, {
  input: {
    userId: '123',
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
});
```

### Providing input to invoked actors

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    src: 'liveFeedback',
    input: {
      domain: 'stately.ai',
    },
  },
});
```

### Providing dynamic input to invoked actors

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: 'some-user-id',
  },
  invoke: {
    src: 'fetchUser',
    input: ({ context }) => ({ userId: context.userId }),
  },
});
```

### Providing input to spawned actors

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    userId: '',
  },
  // ...
  on: {
    'feedback.submit': {
      actions: assign({
        emailRef: ({ context, spawn }) => {
          return spawn('emailUser', {
            input: { userId: context.userId },
          });
        },
      }),
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```
