versioned_docs/version-5/invoke.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Invoke'
---

XState is based on the [actor model](actors.mdx). Invoked actors are managed by the state machine. Invoked actors are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

Coming soon… invoking an actor: `{ invoke: { src: ... } }`.

- Actors can also be invoked on the root of the machine. They last the lifetime of the machine

Coming soon… example of invoking an actor at root.

## Using invoked actors in Stately Studio

Invoked actors are are labeled on their invoking state with “Invoke /” followed by the actor’s source name and ID.

You can invoke multiple actors on a single state. Top-level final states cannot have invoked actors.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.light.png',
      dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135).

In the video player above, the *startVideo* actor is invoked when the video player is in the *Opened* state.

### Invoke actors on a state

1. Select the state you want to invoke an actor.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+** plus icon alongside the **Invoked actors** to add a new action.
4. Add the source for the actor using the **src** text input.
5. Add the ID for the actor using the **ID** text input.
6. Save the invoked actor using the **Save** button.

## API

- `invoke: { src: ... }` - Invokes an actor.
  - `src` - The actor to invoke.
  - `id` - The ID of the actor.
  - `input` - The input to pass to the actor.
  - `systemId` - system-wide ID
  - `onDone`
  - `onSnapshot`
  - `onError`

## Source

- Represented by `src`
- Can be inline: `src: fromPromise(...)`
- Can be referenced: `src: 'fetchUser'`
- `.provide({ actors: ... })`

## Lifecycle

Invoked actors have a lifecycle that is managed by the parent machine. They are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

- Transitions that reenter the state stop invoked actors and start new invoked actors.
  - Don't want this? Set `reenter: false` or omit `reenter` altogether.

## Actor refs

Actors can be read on `state.children.<actorId>`. The returned value is an `ActorRef` object, and it has these properties:

- `id` - the ID of the actor
- `send()`
- `getSnapshot()`

## Actor snapshots

The actor snapshot is the latest emitted value from the actor. It can be read from `actorRef.getSnapshot()`.

- The snapshot is not the same as the internal state; it is what the actor chooses to share with observers.

## `onDone`

- Transitions when invoked actor is complete
- Event gets `.output` with actor's output data

## `onSnapshot`

- Transitions when invoked actor emits a new snapshot
- Event gets `data` with actor's snapshot

## `onError`

- Transitions when invoked actor throws an error
- Event gets `data` with actor's error data

## Input

- Actors can receive input. This is an event: `{ type: 'xstate.init', input: ... }`

## Kinds of actors

- [Promises](actors.mdx#promise-actors)
- [Machines](machines.mdx)
- [Observables](actors.mdx#observable-actors)
- [Transition functions](actors.mdx#transition-actors)
- [Callbacks](actors.mdx#callback-actors)

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Add difference between invoke and spawn and cross-link relevant pages

versioned_docs/version-5/invoke.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Invoke'
---

XState is based on the [actor model](actors.mdx). Invoked actors are managed by the state machine. Invoked actors are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

Coming soon… invoking an actor: `{ invoke: { src: ... } }`.

- Actors can also be invoked on the root of the machine. They last the lifetime of the machine

Coming soon… example of invoking an actor at root.

::: tip
[Read about the difference between invoking and spawning actors](actors.mdx#invoking-and-spawning-actors).
:::

## Using invoked actors in Stately Studio

Invoked actors are are labeled on their invoking state with “Invoke /” followed by the actor’s source name and ID.

You can invoke multiple actors on a single state. Top-level final states cannot have invoked actors.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.light.png',
      dark: 'https://stately.ai/registry/machines/66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135.dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135).

In the video player above, the *startVideo* actor is invoked when the video player is in the *Opened* state.

### Invoke actors on a state

1. Select the state you want to invoke an actor.
2. Open the **State details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **+** plus icon alongside the **Invoked actors** to add a new action.
4. Add the source for the actor using the **src** text input.
5. Add the ID for the actor using the **ID** text input.
6. Save the invoked actor using the **Save** button.

## API

- `invoke: { src: ... }` - Invokes an actor.
  - `src` - The actor to invoke.
  - `id` - The ID of the actor.
  - `input` - The input to pass to the actor.
  - `systemId` - system-wide ID
  - `onDone`
  - `onSnapshot`
  - `onError`

## Source

- Represented by `src`
- Can be inline: `src: fromPromise(...)`
- Can be referenced: `src: 'fetchUser'`
- `.provide({ actors: ... })`

## Lifecycle

Invoked actors have a lifecycle that is managed by the parent machine. They are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

- Transitions that reenter the state stop invoked actors and start new invoked actors.
  - Don't want this? Set `reenter: false` or omit `reenter` altogether.

## Actor refs

Actors can be read on `state.children.<actorId>`. The returned value is an `ActorRef` object, and it has these properties:

- `id` - the ID of the actor
- `send()`
- `getSnapshot()`

## Actor snapshots

The actor snapshot is the latest emitted value from the actor. It can be read from `actorRef.getSnapshot()`.

- The snapshot is not the same as the internal state; it is what the actor chooses to share with observers.

## `onDone`

- Transitions when invoked actor is complete
- Event gets `.output` with actor's output data

## `onSnapshot`

- Transitions when invoked actor emits a new snapshot
- Event gets `data` with actor's snapshot

## `onError`

- Transitions when invoked actor throws an error
- Event gets `data` with actor's error data

## Input

- Actors can receive input. This is an event: `{ type: 'xstate.init', input: ... }`

## Kinds of actors

- [Promises](actors.mdx#promise-actors)
- [Machines](machines.mdx)
- [Observables](actors.mdx#observable-actors)
- [Transition functions](actors.mdx#transition-actors)
- [Callbacks](actors.mdx#callback-actors)

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
