versioned_docs/version-5/migration.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Migrating XState v4 to v5'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Following our guide below, migrating from XState version 4 to version 5 should be straightforward. If you get stuck or have any questions, please reach out to the Stately team on [our Discord](https://discord.gg/xstate).

This guide is for users who want to update their codebase from v4 to v5 and should also be valuable for any developers wanting to know the differences between v4 and v5.

:::tip

## I’m starting a new project. Should I use XState V5?

XState version 5 is in beta, and compared to XState version 4, it is [feature complete](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle#Feature_complete) with all the features of V4 and more. But as V5 is still in beta, some slight breaking changes may occur with future beta versions. So go ahead, but proceed with caution!

:::

## Creating machines

### Use `createMachine()`, not `Machine()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `Machine(config)` function is now called `createMachine(config)`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
import { Machine } from 'xstate';

const machine = Machine({
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `machine.provide()`, not `machine.withConfig()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `machine.withConfig()` method has been renamed to `machine.provide()`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const specificMachine = machine.provide({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const specificMachine = machine.withConfig({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  services: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Set context with `input`, not `machine.withContext()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `machine.withContext(...)` method can no longer be used, as `context` can no longer be overridden in this manner. Use [input](input.mdx) instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    actualMoney: Math.min(input.money, 42),
  }),
});

const actor = interpret(machine, {
  input: {
    money: 1000,
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    actualMoney: 0,
  },
});

const moneyMachine = machine.withContext({
  actualMoney: 1000,
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Actions ordered by default, `predictableActionArguments` no longer needed

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Actions are now in predictable order by default, so the `predictableActionArguments` flag is no longer required. Assign actions will always run in the order they are defined.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    ({ context }) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 0
    },
    assign({ count: 1 }),
    ({ context }) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 1
    },
    assign({ count: 2 }),
    ({ context }) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 2
    },
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  predictableActionArguments: true,
  entry: [
    (context) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 0
    },
    assign({ count: 1 }),
    (context) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 1
    },
    assign({ count: 2 }),
    (context) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 2
    },
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Events and transitions

### Implementation functions receive a single argument

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Implementation functions now take in a single argument: an object with `context`, `event`, and other properties.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ({ context, event }) => {
    // ...
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: (context, event) => {
    // ...
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use either `raise()` or `sendTo()`, not `send()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `send(...)` action creator is removed. Use `raise(...)` for sending events to self or `sendTo(...)` for sending events to other actors instead.

Read the documentation on the [`sendTo` action](actions.mdx#send-to-action) and [`raise` action](actions.mdx#raise-action) for more information.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: [
    // Send an event to self
    raise({ type: 'someEvent' }),

    // Send an event to another actor
    sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' }),
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: [
    // Send an event to self
    send({ type: 'someEvent' }),

    // Send an event to another actor
    send({ type: 'someEvent' }, { to: 'someActor' }),
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### `actor.send()` no longer accepts string types

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

String event types can no longer be sent to, e.g., `actor.send(event)`; you must send an event object instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
actor.send({ type: 'someEvent' });
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
actor.send('someEvent');
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to pass an object to `.send()`.

### `state.can()` no longer accepts string types

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

String event types can no longer be sent to, e.g., `state.can(event)`; you must send an event object instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
state.can({ type: 'someEvent' });
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
state.can('someEvent');
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Guarded transitions use `guard`, not `cond`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `cond` transition property for guarded transitions is now called `guard`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      guard: 'someGuard',
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      // renamed to `guard` in v5
      cond: 'someGuard',
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `params` to pass custom event data

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Properties other than `type` on action objects and guard objects should be nested under a `params` property; `{ type: 'someType', message: 'hello' }` becomes `{ type: 'someType', params: { message: 'hello' }}`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: {
    type: 'greet',
    params: {
      message: 'Hello world',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: {
    type: 'greet',
    message: 'Hello world',
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to include a `params` object on [event objects](#actorsend-no-longer-accepts-string-types) passed to `.send()`.

### Use wildcard `*` transitions, not strict mode

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Strict mode is removed. If you want to throw on unhandled events, you should use a wildcard transition:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    knownEvent: {
      // ...
    },
    '*': {
      // unknown event
      actions: ({ event }) => {
        throw new Error(`Unknown event: ${event.type}`);
      },
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  strict: true,
  on: {
    knownEvent: {
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use explicit `always` transitions

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Eventless (“always”) events must now be defined through the `always: { ... }` property of a state node; they can no longer be defined via an empty string:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    someState: {
      always: {
        target: 'anotherState',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    someState: {
      on: {
        '': {
          target: 'anotherState',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to use `always` for _eventless_ transitions.

### Use `reenter: true`, not `internal: false`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`internal: false` is now `reenter: true`

External transitions previously specified with `internal: false` are now specified with `reenter: true`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      target: 'sameState',
      reenter: true,
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      target: 'sameState',
      internal: false,
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `stateIn()` to validate state transitions, not `in`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `in: 'someState'` transition property is removed. Use `guard: stateIn(...)` instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      guard: stateIn({ form: 'submitting' }),
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      in: '#someMachine.form.submitting'
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `actor.subscribe()` instead of `state.history`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `state.history` property is removed. If you want the previous snapshot, you should maintain that via `actor.subscribe(...)` instead.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
let previousSnapshot = actor.getSnapshot();

actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  doSomeComparison(previousSnapshot, snapshot);
  previousSnapshot = snapshot;
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
actor.subscribe((state) => {
  doSomeComparison(state.history, state);
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to track history using `actor.subscribe()`.

## Actors

### Use `actors` property on `options` object instead of `services`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`services` have been renamed to `actors`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const specificMachine = machine.provide({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const specificMachine = machine.withConfig({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  services: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `subscribe()` for changes, not `onTransition()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `actor.onTransition(...)` method is removed. Use `actor.subscribe(...)` instead.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.subscribe((state) => {
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.onTransition((state) => {
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### `interpret()` accepts a second argument to restore state

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`interpret(machine).start(state)` is now `interpret(machine, { state }).start()`

To restore an actor at a specific state, you should now pass the state into the `state` property of the `options` argument of `interpret(logic, options)`. The `actor.start()` property no longer takes in a `state` argument.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const actor = interpret(machine, { state: someState });
actor.start();
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.start(someState);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `actor.getSnapshot()` to get actor’s state

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Subscribing to an actor (`actor.subscribe(...)`) after the actor has started will no longer emit the current snapshot immediately. Instead, read the current snapshot from `actor.getSnapshot()`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.start();

const initialState = actor.getSnapshot();

actor.subscribe((state) => {
  // Snapshots from when the subscription was created
  // Will not emit the current snapshot until a transition happens
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.start();

actor.subscribe((state) => {
  // Current snapshot immediately emitted
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Loop over events instead of using `actor.batch()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `actor.batch([...])` method for batching events is removed.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
for (const event of events) {
  actor.send(event);
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
actor.batch(events);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to loop over events to send them as a batch.

## TypeScript

### Use `types` instead of `schema`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `machineConfig.schema` property is renamed to `machineConfig.types`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {} as {
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `types.typegen` instead of `tsTypes`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`machineConfig.tsTypes` has been renamed and is now nested as `machineConfig.types.typegen`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    typegen: {};
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  tsTypes: {};
  schema: {} as {
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## New features

_List coming soon_

## Timeline

XState V5 is in beta, so there’s still work to be done. We anticipate the tools will be fully compatible with XState V5 beta by summer/fall 2023, with XState V5 stable being released by the end of 2023.

### When will XState V5 be out of beta?

We hope to release XState V5 as a stable major release this year (2023) but can’t provide any exact estimates. The rough timeline is:

1. Get early feedback on XState V5 beta (`xstate@beta`)
2. Ensure all related packages (e.g. `@xstate/react`, `@xstate/vue`) are fully compatible with XState V5
3. Support V5 in typegen, `@xstate/inspect`, and related tools
4. Support V5 (importing & exporting) in Stately Studio
5. Release candidates
6. Release XState V5 stable

Upvote or comment on [XState V5 in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/xstate/p/xstate-v5) to be the first to find out when V5 is released.

### When will Stately Studio be compatible with XState V5?

We are currently working on [Stately Studio](studio.mdx) compatibility with XState V5. Exporting to XState V5 (JavaScript or TypeScript) will happen soonest, followed by support for new XState V5 features, such as higher-order guards, partial event wildcards, and machine input/output.

Upvote or comment on [Stately Studio + XState V5 compatibility in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/editor/p/stately-studio-xstate-v5-compatibility) to stay updated on our progress.

### When will the XState VS Code extension be compatible with XState V5?

The [XState VS Code extension](xstate-vscode-extension.mdx) is not yet compatible with XState v5. The extension is a priority for us, and work is already underway.

Upvote or comment on [XState V5 compatibility for VS Code extension in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/devtools/p/xstate-v5-compatibility-for-vs-code-extension) to stay updated on our progress.

### When will XState V5 have typegen?

[Typegen](typegen.mdx) automatically generates intelligent typings for XState and is not yet compatible with XState v5. We’re working on Typegen alongside the VS Code extension.

Upvote or comment on [Typegen for XState V5 in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/xstate/p/typegen-for-xstate-v5) to stay updated on our progress.

Commit message:

Add link to migration webinar video

versioned_docs/version-5/migration.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Migrating XState v4 to v5'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Following our guide below, migrating from XState version 4 to version 5 should be straightforward. If you get stuck or have any questions, please reach out to the Stately team on [our Discord](https://discord.gg/xstate).

This guide is for users who want to update their codebase from v4 to v5 and should also be valuable for any developers wanting to know the differences between v4 and v5.

:::video

Prefer video? [Watch our Migration to XState V5 beta webinar on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s-nqoIbIZac).

:::

:::tip

## I’m starting a new project. Should I use XState V5?

XState version 5 is in beta, and compared to XState version 4, it is [feature complete](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle#Feature_complete) with all the features of V4 and more. But as V5 is still in beta, some slight breaking changes may occur with future beta versions. So go ahead, but proceed with caution!

:::

## Creating machines

### Use `createMachine()`, not `Machine()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `Machine(config)` function is now called `createMachine(config)`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
import { Machine } from 'xstate';

const machine = Machine({
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `machine.provide()`, not `machine.withConfig()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `machine.withConfig()` method has been renamed to `machine.provide()`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const specificMachine = machine.provide({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const specificMachine = machine.withConfig({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  services: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Set context with `input`, not `machine.withContext()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `machine.withContext(...)` method can no longer be used, as `context` can no longer be overridden in this manner. Use [input](input.mdx) instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    actualMoney: Math.min(input.money, 42),
  }),
});

const actor = interpret(machine, {
  input: {
    money: 1000,
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    actualMoney: 0,
  },
});

const moneyMachine = machine.withContext({
  actualMoney: 1000,
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Actions ordered by default, `predictableActionArguments` no longer needed

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Actions are now in predictable order by default, so the `predictableActionArguments` flag is no longer required. Assign actions will always run in the order they are defined.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    ({ context }) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 0
    },
    assign({ count: 1 }),
    ({ context }) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 1
    },
    assign({ count: 2 }),
    ({ context }) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 2
    },
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  predictableActionArguments: true,
  entry: [
    (context) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 0
    },
    assign({ count: 1 }),
    (context) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 1
    },
    assign({ count: 2 }),
    (context) => {
      console.log(context.count); // 2
    },
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Events and transitions

### Implementation functions receive a single argument

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Implementation functions now take in a single argument: an object with `context`, `event`, and other properties.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: ({ context, event }) => {
    // ...
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: (context, event) => {
    // ...
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use either `raise()` or `sendTo()`, not `send()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `send(...)` action creator is removed. Use `raise(...)` for sending events to self or `sendTo(...)` for sending events to other actors instead.

Read the documentation on the [`sendTo` action](actions.mdx#send-to-action) and [`raise` action](actions.mdx#raise-action) for more information.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: [
    // Send an event to self
    raise({ type: 'someEvent' }),

    // Send an event to another actor
    sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' }),
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: [
    // Send an event to self
    send({ type: 'someEvent' }),

    // Send an event to another actor
    send({ type: 'someEvent' }, { to: 'someActor' }),
  ],
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### `actor.send()` no longer accepts string types

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

String event types can no longer be sent to, e.g., `actor.send(event)`; you must send an event object instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
actor.send({ type: 'someEvent' });
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
actor.send('someEvent');
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to pass an object to `.send()`.

### `state.can()` no longer accepts string types

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

String event types can no longer be sent to, e.g., `state.can(event)`; you must send an event object instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
state.can({ type: 'someEvent' });
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
state.can('someEvent');
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Guarded transitions use `guard`, not `cond`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `cond` transition property for guarded transitions is now called `guard`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      guard: 'someGuard',
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      // renamed to `guard` in v5
      cond: 'someGuard',
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `params` to pass custom event data

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Properties other than `type` on action objects and guard objects should be nested under a `params` property; `{ type: 'someType', message: 'hello' }` becomes `{ type: 'someType', params: { message: 'hello' }}`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: {
    type: 'greet',
    params: {
      message: 'Hello world',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  entry: {
    type: 'greet',
    message: 'Hello world',
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to include a `params` object on [event objects](#actorsend-no-longer-accepts-string-types) passed to `.send()`.

### Use wildcard `*` transitions, not strict mode

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Strict mode is removed. If you want to throw on unhandled events, you should use a wildcard transition:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    knownEvent: {
      // ...
    },
    '*': {
      // unknown event
      actions: ({ event }) => {
        throw new Error(`Unknown event: ${event.type}`);
      },
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  strict: true,
  on: {
    knownEvent: {
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use explicit `always` transitions

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Eventless (“always”) events must now be defined through the `always: { ... }` property of a state node; they can no longer be defined via an empty string:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    someState: {
      always: {
        target: 'anotherState',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    someState: {
      on: {
        '': {
          target: 'anotherState',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to use `always` for _eventless_ transitions.

### Use `reenter: true`, not `internal: false`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`internal: false` is now `reenter: true`

External transitions previously specified with `internal: false` are now specified with `reenter: true`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      target: 'sameState',
      reenter: true,
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      target: 'sameState',
      internal: false,
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `stateIn()` to validate state transitions, not `in`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `in: 'someState'` transition property is removed. Use `guard: stateIn(...)` instead:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      guard: stateIn({ form: 'submitting' }),
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      in: '#someMachine.form.submitting'
      target: 'someState',
    },
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `actor.subscribe()` instead of `state.history`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `state.history` property is removed. If you want the previous snapshot, you should maintain that via `actor.subscribe(...)` instead.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
let previousSnapshot = actor.getSnapshot();

actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  doSomeComparison(previousSnapshot, snapshot);
  previousSnapshot = snapshot;
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
actor.subscribe((state) => {
  doSomeComparison(state.history, state);
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to track history using `actor.subscribe()`.

## Actors

### Use `actors` property on `options` object instead of `services`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`services` have been renamed to `actors`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const specificMachine = machine.provide({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const specificMachine = machine.withConfig({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  services: {
    /* ... */
  },
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `subscribe()` for changes, not `onTransition()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `actor.onTransition(...)` method is removed. Use `actor.subscribe(...)` instead.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.subscribe((state) => {
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.onTransition((state) => {
  // ...
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### `interpret()` accepts a second argument to restore state

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`interpret(machine).start(state)` is now `interpret(machine, { state }).start()`

To restore an actor at a specific state, you should now pass the state into the `state` property of the `options` argument of `interpret(logic, options)`. The `actor.start()` property no longer takes in a `state` argument.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const actor = interpret(machine, { state: someState });
actor.start();
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.start(someState);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `actor.getSnapshot()` to get actor’s state

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

Subscribing to an actor (`actor.subscribe(...)`) after the actor has started will no longer emit the current snapshot immediately. Instead, read the current snapshot from `actor.getSnapshot()`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.start();

const initialState = actor.getSnapshot();

actor.subscribe((state) => {
  // Snapshots from when the subscription was created
  // Will not emit the current snapshot until a transition happens
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const actor = interpret(machine);
actor.start();

actor.subscribe((state) => {
  // Current snapshot immediately emitted
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Loop over events instead of using `actor.batch()`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `actor.batch([...])` method for batching events is removed.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
for (const event of events) {
  actor.send(event);
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
actor.batch(events);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Pre-migration tip:** Update v4 projects to loop over events to send them as a batch.

## TypeScript

### Use `types` instead of `schema`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

The `machineConfig.schema` property is renamed to `machineConfig.types`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  schema: {} as {
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use `types.typegen` instead of `tsTypes`

:::breakingchange

Breaking change

:::

`machineConfig.tsTypes` has been renamed and is now nested as `machineConfig.types.typegen`:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v5" label="XState v5">

```ts
// ✅
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    typegen: {};
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="v4" label="XState v4">

```ts
// ❌ DEPRECATED
const machine = createMachine({
  tsTypes: {};
  schema: {} as {
    context: {
      /* ...*/
    };
    events: {
      /* ...*/
    };
  },
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## New features

_List coming soon_

## Timeline

XState V5 is in beta, so there’s still work to be done. We anticipate the tools will be fully compatible with XState V5 beta by summer/fall 2023, with XState V5 stable being released by the end of 2023.

### When will XState V5 be out of beta?

We hope to release XState V5 as a stable major release this year (2023) but can’t provide any exact estimates. The rough timeline is:

1. Get early feedback on XState V5 beta (`xstate@beta`)
2. Ensure all related packages (e.g. `@xstate/react`, `@xstate/vue`) are fully compatible with XState V5
3. Support V5 in typegen, `@xstate/inspect`, and related tools
4. Support V5 (importing & exporting) in Stately Studio
5. Release candidates
6. Release XState V5 stable

Upvote or comment on [XState V5 in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/xstate/p/xstate-v5) to be the first to find out when V5 is released.

### When will Stately Studio be compatible with XState V5?

We are currently working on [Stately Studio](studio.mdx) compatibility with XState V5. Exporting to XState V5 (JavaScript or TypeScript) will happen soonest, followed by support for new XState V5 features, such as higher-order guards, partial event wildcards, and machine input/output.

Upvote or comment on [Stately Studio + XState V5 compatibility in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/editor/p/stately-studio-xstate-v5-compatibility) to stay updated on our progress.

### When will the XState VS Code extension be compatible with XState V5?

The [XState VS Code extension](xstate-vscode-extension.mdx) is not yet compatible with XState v5. The extension is a priority for us, and work is already underway.

Upvote or comment on [XState V5 compatibility for VS Code extension in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/devtools/p/xstate-v5-compatibility-for-vs-code-extension) to stay updated on our progress.

### When will XState V5 have typegen?

[Typegen](typegen.mdx) automatically generates intelligent typings for XState and is not yet compatible with XState v5. We’re working on Typegen alongside the VS Code extension.

Upvote or comment on [Typegen for XState V5 in our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io/xstate/p/typegen-for-xstate-v5) to stay updated on our progress.
