versioned_docs/version-5/studio-pro-plan.mdx, before:

---
title: Stately Studio Pro plan
---

# Stately Studio Pro

[Upgrade to a Pro account](https://stately.ai/pricing) to get features designed to help you collaborate with your team, including the following Pro features.

## Pro features

- [Teams](teams.mdx)
<!-- - Versions -->
- [Private and unlisted projects](projects.mdx#change-a-projects-visibility)
- [Priority support](studio-pro-plan.mdx#priority-support)

We have many more pro features planned. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.ai).

We offer a **30-day free trial** on Stately Studio Pro account so you can explore how our Pro features work for you and your team.

:::studio

**Stately Studio will always be free to our Community users** on the free plan, and we will make many future features available on every plan.

:::

## Pro accounts

You can choose between monthly or yearly billing on our Pro accounts and how many seats you require for your team.

### How to sign up

You can sign up for a Stately Studio account from the [**Sign in page**](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or the **Sign in** button in [the editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Read more about [signing up for Stately Studio](sign-up.mdx).

### How to upgrade

You can [upgrade](upgrade.mdx) when you’re signed into Stately Studio using the **Upgrade** button in the editor’s header.

## Priority support

When you sign up for a Pro plan, you will receive an email with information on accessing priority support from the Stately team.

Commit message:

Update and match Pro features on v4 and v5 docs (#166)
* Update pro features list and make v4 + v5 pro pages match

* Update feedback/roadmap URL from Canny version to Stately version

versioned_docs/version-5/studio-pro-plan.mdx, after:

---
title: Stately Studio Pro plan
---

# Stately Studio Pro

[Upgrade to a Pro account](https://stately.ai/pricing) to get features designed to help you collaborate with your team, including the following Pro features.

## Pro features

- [Teams and shared projects](/teams.mdx)
- [Private and unlisted projects](/projects.mdx#change-a-projects-visibility)
- [Version history](/versions.mdx)
- [Import from GitHub](/import-from-github.mdx)
- [Live simulation mode](/live-simulation.mdx)
- [Color states and transitions](/colors.mdx)
- [Priority support](/studio-pro-plan.mdx#priority-support)
- GitHub Sync (coming soon!)
- Workflows (coming soon!)
- Live collaboration (coming soon!)

We have many more pro features coming soon. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://feedback.stately.ai).

We offer a **30-day free trial** on the Stately Studio Pro account so you can explore how our Pro features work for you and your team.

:::studio

**The Stately Studio will always be free to our Community users** on the free plan, and we will make many future features available on every plan.

:::

## Pro accounts

You can choose between monthly or yearly billing on our Pro accounts and how many seats you require for your team.

:::studio

### Pro features as a team member

If you are a team member of another user’s [team](/teams.mdx), you also have access to [Pro features](#pro-features)! However, if you want to create your own teams, you need to [upgrade to your own Pro subscription](/upgrade.mdx).

:::

### How to sign up

You can sign up for a Stately Studio account from the [**Sign in page**](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or the **Sign in** button in [the editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Read more about [signing up for the Stately Studio](sign-up.mdx).

### How to upgrade

You can [upgrade](upgrade.mdx) when you’re signed into the Stately Studio using the **Upgrade** button in the editor’s header.

## Priority support

When you sign up for a Pro plan, you will receive an email with information on accessing priority support from the Stately team.
