docs/actions.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Actions'
---

Actions are fire-and-forget effects. When a state machine transitions, it may execute actions. Actions occur in response to events, and are typically defined on transitions in the `actions: [...]` property. Actions can also be defined for any transition that enters a state in the state's `entry: [...]` property, or for any transition that exits a state in the state's `exit: [...]` property.

:::studio

You can visualize your state machines and easily add actions in our drag-and-drop Stately editor. [Read more about actions in Stately’s editor](editor-actions-and-actors.mdx).

:::

Actions can also be on a state’s `entry` or `exit`, also as a single action or an array.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } }
          ]
        }
      },
      exit: ['exitAction']
    }
    thanks: {
      entry: ['showConfetti'],
    }
  }
}, {
  actions: {
    track: (_, params) => {
      track(params);
      // Tracks { response: 'good' }
    },
    showConfetti: () => {
      // ...
    }
  }
})
```

Examples of actions:

- Logging a message
- Sending a message to another [actor](actors.mdx)
- Updating context

## Entry and exit actions

Entry actions are actions that occur on any transition that enters a state node. Exit actions are actions that occur on any transition that exits a state node.

Entry and exit actions are defined using the `entry: ...` and `exit: ...` attributes on a state node. You can fire multiple entry and exit actions on a state. Top-level final states cannot have exit actions, since the machine is stopped and no further transitions can occur.

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=f46674a5-4da3-4aca-9900-17c6ef471f50" title="Feedback form"/>

## Action objects

Action objects have an action `type` and an optional `params` object:

- The action `type` property describes the action. Actions with the same type have the same implementation.
- The action `params` property hold parameterized values that are relevant to the action.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            // highlight-start
            {
              // Action type
              type: 'track',
              // Action params
              params: { response: 'good' },
            },
            // highlight-end
          ],
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Dynamic action parameters

You can dynamically pass parameters in the `params` property to action objects by using a function that returns the params. The function takes in an object that contains the current `context` and `event` as arguments.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    initialRating: 3
  },
  entry: [{
    type: 'logInitialRating',
    // highlight-start
    params: ({ context }) => ({
      initialRating: context.initialRating
    })
    // highlight-end
  }]
});
```

This is a recommended approach for making actions more reusable, since you can define actions that do not rely on the machine’s `context` or `event` types.

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

// highlight-start
function logInitialRating(_, params: { initialRating: number }) {
  console.log(`Initial rating: ${params.initialRating}`);
}
// highlight-end

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  actions: { logInitialRating }
}).createMachine({
  context: { initialRating: 3 },
  entry: [{
    type: 'logInitialRating',
    // highlight-start
    params: ({ context }) => ({
      initialRating: context.initialRating
    })
    // highlight-end
  }]
});
```

## Inline actions

You can declare actions as inline functions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    // highlight-start
    // Inline action
    ({ context, event }) => {
      console.log(/* ... */);
    },
    // highlight-end
  ],
});
```

Inline actions are useful for prototyping and simple cases but we generally recommended using action objects.

## Implementing actions

You can setup the implementations for named actions in the `actions` property of the `setup(...)` function

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  // highlight-start
  actions: {
    track: ({ context, event }, params) => {
      // Action implementation
      // ...
    },
  }
  // highlight-end
}).createMachine(
  {
    // Machine config
    entry: [{ type: 'track', params: { msg: 'entered' }}]
  },
);
```

You can also provide action implementations to override existing actions in the `machine.provide(...)` method, which creates a new machine with the same config but with the provided implementations:

```ts
const feedbackActor = createActor(
  // highlight-start
  feedbackMachine.provide({
    actions: {
      track: ({ context, event }, params) => {
        // Different action implementation
        // (overrides previous implementation)
        // ...
      },
    },
  }),
  // highlight-end
);
```

## Assign action

The `assign(...)` action is a special action that assigns data to the state context. The `assignments` argument in `assign(assignments)` is where assignments to context are specified.

Assignments can be an object of key-value pairs where the keys are `context` keys and the values are either static values or expressions that return the new value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});

const countActor = createActor(countMachine);
countActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.count);
});
countActor.start();
// logs 0

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 3 });
// logs 3

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 2 });
// logs 5
```

For more dynamic assignments, the argument passed to `assign(...)` may also be a function that returns the partial or full `context` value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign(({ context, event }) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + event.value,
        };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Raise action

The raise action is a special action that _raises_ an event that is received by the same machine. Raising an event is how a machine can “send” an event to itself:

```ts
import { createMachine, raise } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  // highlight-next-line
  entry: raise({ type: 'someEvent', data: 'someData' });
});
```

Internally, when an event is raised, it is placed into an “internal event queue”. After the current transition is finished, these events are processed in insertion order ([first-in first-out, or FIFO](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics)>)). External events are only processed once all events in the internal event queue are processed.

Raised events can be dynamic:

```ts
import { createMachine, raise } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  // highlight-start
  entry: raise(({ context, event }) => ({
    type: 'dynamicEvent',
    data: context.someValue,
  }))
  // highlight-end
});
```

Events can also be raised with a delay, which will not place them in the internal event queue, since they will not be immediately processed:


```ts
import { createMachine, raise } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: raise(
    { type: 'someEvent' },
    // highlight-next-line
    { delay: 1000 }
  );
});
```

## Send-to action

The `sendTo(...)` action is a special action that sends an event to a specific actor.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The event can be dynamic:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', ({ context, event }) => {
        return { type: 'someEvent', data: context.someData };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The destination actor can be the actor ID or the actor reference itself:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    someActorRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */)),
  }),
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo(({ context }) => context.someActorRef, {
        type: 'someEvent',
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

Other options, such as `delay` and `id`, can be passed as the 3rd argument:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        // highlight-start
        {
          id: 'transmission',
          delay: 1000,
        },
        // highlight-end
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

## Enqueue actions

The `enqueueActions(...)` action creator is a higher-level action that enqueues actions to be executed sequentially, without actually executing any of the actions. It takes a callback that receives the `context`, `event` as well as `enqueue` and `check` functions:

- The `enqueue(...)` function is used to enqueue an action. It takes an action object or action function:
  ```ts
  actions: enqueueActions(({ enqueue }) => {
    // Enqueue an action object
    enqueue({ type: 'greet', params: { message: 'hi' } });

    // Enqueue an action function
    enqueue(() => console.log('Hello'));

    // Enqueue a simple action with no params
    enqueue('doSomething');
  })
  ```
- The `check(...)` function is used to conditionally enqueue an action. It takes a guard object or a guard function and returns a boolean that represents whether the guard evaluates to `true`:
  ```ts
  actions: enqueueActions(({ enqueue, check }) => {
    if (check({ type: 'everythingLooksGood' })) {
      enqueue('doSomething');
    }
  })
  ```
- There are also helper methos on `enqueue` for enqueueing built-in actions:
  - `enqueue.assign(...)`: Enqueues an `assign(...)` action
  - `enqueue.sendTo(...)`: Enqueues a `sendTo(...)` action
  - `enqueue.raise(...)`: Enqueues a `raise(...)` action
  - `enqueue.spawnChild(...)`: Enqueues a `spawnChild(...)` action
  - `enqueue.stopChild(...)`: Enqueues a `stopChild(...)` action
  - `enqueue.cancel(...)`: Enqueues a `cancel(...)` action

Enqueued actions can be called conditionally, but they cannot be enqueued asynchronously.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: enqueueActions(({ context, event, enqueue, check }) => {
    // assign action
    enqueue.assign({
      count: context.count + 1
    });

    // Conditional actions (replaces choose(...))
    if (event.someOption) {
      enqueue.sendTo('someActor', { type: 'blah', thing: context.thing });

      // other actions
      enqueue('namedAction');
      // with params
      enqueue({ type: 'greet', params: { message: 'hello' } });
    } else {
      // inline
      enqueue(() => console.log('hello'));

      // even built-in actions
    }

    // Use check(...) to conditionally enqueue actions based on a guard
    if (check({ type: 'someGuard' })) {
      // ...
    }

    // no return
  })
});
```

## Log action

The `log(...)` action is an easy way to log messages to the console.

_Example coming soon_


## Cancel action

The `cancel(...)` action cancels a delayed `sendTo(...)` or `raise(...)` action by their IDs:

```ts
import { createMachine, sendTo, cancel } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    event: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        {
          // highlight-next-line
          id: 'someId',
          delay: 1000,
        },
      ),
    },
    cancelEvent: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: cancel('someId'),
    },
  },
});
```

## Stop child action

The `stopChild(...)` action stops a child actor. Actors can only be stopped from their parent actor:

```ts
import { createMachine, stopChild } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    spawnedRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */), { id: 'spawnedId' }),
  }),
  on: {
    stopById: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: stopChild('spawnedId'),
    },
    stopByRef: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: stopChild(({ context }) => context.spawnedRef),
    },
  },
});
```

## Modeling

If you only need to execute actions in response to events, you can create a [self-transition](/docs/transitions#self-transitions) that only has `actions: [ ... ]` defined. For example, a machine that only needs to assign to `context` in transitions may look like this:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  // highlight-start
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
    },
    decrement: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count - event.value,
      }),
    },
  },
  // highlight-end
});
```

## Shorthands

- For simple actions, can specify action string instead of object
- Objects preferred for consistency

## TypeScript

You can strongly type the `actions` of your machine in the `types.actions` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    actions:
      | {
          type: 'track';
          params: {
            response: string;
          };
        }
      | { type: 'increment'; params: { value: number } };
    // highlight-end
  },
  // ...
  entry: [
    { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } },
    { type: 'increment', params: { value: 1 } },
  ],
});
```

If you want to setup default action implementations, you can also use the `setup({ ... })` function:

```ts
const machine = setup({
  // highlight-start
  actions: {
    track: (_, params: { response: string }) => {
      // ...
    },
    increment: (_, params: { value: number }) => {
      // ...
    }
  }
  // highlight-end
}).createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: [
    { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } },
    { type: 'increment', params: { value: 1 } },
  ]
});
```

## Cheatsheet

### Entry and exit actions

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  // Entry action on root
  entry: [{ type: 'entryAction' }],
  exit: [{ type: 'exitAction' }],
  // highlight-end
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    start: {
      // highlight-start
      entry: [{ type:'startEntryAction' }],
      exit: [{ type:'startExitAction' }],
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
});
```

### Transition actions

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      actions: [
        // highlight-start
        { type: 'doSomething' },
        { type: 'doSomethingElse' },
        // highlight-end
      ]
    }
  }
});
```

### Inline action functions

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      actions: [
        // highlight-start
        ({ context, event }) => {
          console.log(context, event);
        }
        // highlight-end
      ]
    }
  }
});
```

### Setting up actions

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const someAction = () => {
  //...
}

const machine = setup({
  actions: {
    someAction
  }
}).createMachine({
  entry: [
    // highlight-start
    { type: 'someAction' }
    // highlight-end
  ],
  // ...
})
```

### Providing actions

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const someAction = () => {
  //...
}

const machine = setup({
  actions: {
    someAction
  }
}).createMachine({
  // ...
});

const modifiedMachine = machine.provide({
  someAction: () => {
    // Overridden action implementation
  }
});
```

### Assign action

**With property assigners**

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => {
          return context.count + event.value;
        }
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

**With function assigners**

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign(({ context, event }) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + event.value
        };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

### Raise action

Coming soon...

### Send-to action

Coming soon...

### Enqueue actions

```ts
import { createMachine, enqueueActions } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  entry: enqueueActions(({ enqueue, check }) => {
    enqueue({ type: 'someAction' });

    if (check({ type: 'someGuard' })) {
      enqueue({ type: 'anotherAction' });
    }

    enqueue.assign({
      count: 0
    })

    enqueue.sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' });

    enqueue.raise({ type: 'anEvent' })
  })
  // highlight-end
});
```

Commit message:

Link to TypeScript page in relevant locations with TS admonition

docs/actions.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Actions'
---

Actions are fire-and-forget effects. When a state machine transitions, it may execute actions. Actions occur in response to events, and are typically defined on transitions in the `actions: [...]` property. Actions can also be defined for any transition that enters a state in the state's `entry: [...]` property, or for any transition that exits a state in the state's `exit: [...]` property.

:::studio

You can visualize your state machines and easily add actions in our drag-and-drop Stately editor. [Read more about actions in Stately’s editor](editor-actions-and-actors.mdx).

:::

Actions can also be on a state’s `entry` or `exit`, also as a single action or an array.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } }
          ]
        }
      },
      exit: ['exitAction']
    }
    thanks: {
      entry: ['showConfetti'],
    }
  }
}, {
  actions: {
    track: (_, params) => {
      track(params);
      // Tracks { response: 'good' }
    },
    showConfetti: () => {
      // ...
    }
  }
})
```

Examples of actions:

- Logging a message
- Sending a message to another [actor](actors.mdx)
- Updating context

## Entry and exit actions

Entry actions are actions that occur on any transition that enters a state node. Exit actions are actions that occur on any transition that exits a state node.

Entry and exit actions are defined using the `entry: ...` and `exit: ...` attributes on a state node. You can fire multiple entry and exit actions on a state. Top-level final states cannot have exit actions, since the machine is stopped and no further transitions can occur.

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=f46674a5-4da3-4aca-9900-17c6ef471f50" title="Feedback form"/>

## Action objects

Action objects have an action `type` and an optional `params` object:

- The action `type` property describes the action. Actions with the same type have the same implementation.
- The action `params` property hold parameterized values that are relevant to the action.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          actions: [
            // highlight-start
            {
              // Action type
              type: 'track',
              // Action params
              params: { response: 'good' },
            },
            // highlight-end
          ],
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Dynamic action parameters

You can dynamically pass parameters in the `params` property to action objects by using a function that returns the params. The function takes in an object that contains the current `context` and `event` as arguments.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    initialRating: 3
  },
  entry: [{
    type: 'logInitialRating',
    // highlight-start
    params: ({ context }) => ({
      initialRating: context.initialRating
    })
    // highlight-end
  }]
});
```

This is a recommended approach for making actions more reusable, since you can define actions that do not rely on the machine’s `context` or `event` types.

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

// highlight-start
function logInitialRating(_, params: { initialRating: number }) {
  console.log(`Initial rating: ${params.initialRating}`);
}
// highlight-end

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  actions: { logInitialRating }
}).createMachine({
  context: { initialRating: 3 },
  entry: [{
    type: 'logInitialRating',
    // highlight-start
    params: ({ context }) => ({
      initialRating: context.initialRating
    })
    // highlight-end
  }]
});
```

## Inline actions

You can declare actions as inline functions:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  entry: [
    // highlight-start
    // Inline action
    ({ context, event }) => {
      console.log(/* ... */);
    },
    // highlight-end
  ],
});
```

Inline actions are useful for prototyping and simple cases but we generally recommended using action objects.

## Implementing actions

You can setup the implementations for named actions in the `actions` property of the `setup(...)` function

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  // highlight-start
  actions: {
    track: ({ context, event }, params) => {
      // Action implementation
      // ...
    },
  }
  // highlight-end
}).createMachine(
  {
    // Machine config
    entry: [{ type: 'track', params: { msg: 'entered' }}]
  },
);
```

You can also provide action implementations to override existing actions in the `machine.provide(...)` method, which creates a new machine with the same config but with the provided implementations:

```ts
const feedbackActor = createActor(
  // highlight-start
  feedbackMachine.provide({
    actions: {
      track: ({ context, event }, params) => {
        // Different action implementation
        // (overrides previous implementation)
        // ...
      },
    },
  }),
  // highlight-end
);
```

## Assign action

The `assign(...)` action is a special action that assigns data to the state context. The `assignments` argument in `assign(assignments)` is where assignments to context are specified.

Assignments can be an object of key-value pairs where the keys are `context` keys and the values are either static values or expressions that return the new value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});

const countActor = createActor(countMachine);
countActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.count);
});
countActor.start();
// logs 0

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 3 });
// logs 3

countActor.send({ type: 'increment', value: 2 });
// logs 5
```

For more dynamic assignments, the argument passed to `assign(...)` may also be a function that returns the partial or full `context` value:

```ts
const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign(({ context, event }) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + event.value,
        };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Raise action

The raise action is a special action that _raises_ an event that is received by the same machine. Raising an event is how a machine can “send” an event to itself:

```ts
import { createMachine, raise } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  // highlight-next-line
  entry: raise({ type: 'someEvent', data: 'someData' });
});
```

Internally, when an event is raised, it is placed into an “internal event queue”. After the current transition is finished, these events are processed in insertion order ([first-in first-out, or FIFO](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics)>)). External events are only processed once all events in the internal event queue are processed.

Raised events can be dynamic:

```ts
import { createMachine, raise } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  // highlight-start
  entry: raise(({ context, event }) => ({
    type: 'dynamicEvent',
    data: context.someValue,
  }))
  // highlight-end
});
```

Events can also be raised with a delay, which will not place them in the internal event queue, since they will not be immediately processed:


```ts
import { createMachine, raise } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: raise(
    { type: 'someEvent' },
    // highlight-next-line
    { delay: 1000 }
  );
});
```

## Send-to action

The `sendTo(...)` action is a special action that sends an event to a specific actor.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The event can be dynamic:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo('someActor', ({ context, event }) => {
        return { type: 'someEvent', data: context.someData };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

The destination actor can be the actor ID or the actor reference itself:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    someActorRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */)),
  }),
  on: {
    transmit: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: sendTo(({ context }) => context.someActorRef, {
        type: 'someEvent',
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

Other options, such as `delay` and `id`, can be passed as the 3rd argument:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    transmit: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        // highlight-start
        {
          id: 'transmission',
          delay: 1000,
        },
        // highlight-end
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

## Enqueue actions

The `enqueueActions(...)` action creator is a higher-level action that enqueues actions to be executed sequentially, without actually executing any of the actions. It takes a callback that receives the `context`, `event` as well as `enqueue` and `check` functions:

- The `enqueue(...)` function is used to enqueue an action. It takes an action object or action function:
  ```ts
  actions: enqueueActions(({ enqueue }) => {
    // Enqueue an action object
    enqueue({ type: 'greet', params: { message: 'hi' } });

    // Enqueue an action function
    enqueue(() => console.log('Hello'));

    // Enqueue a simple action with no params
    enqueue('doSomething');
  })
  ```
- The `check(...)` function is used to conditionally enqueue an action. It takes a guard object or a guard function and returns a boolean that represents whether the guard evaluates to `true`:
  ```ts
  actions: enqueueActions(({ enqueue, check }) => {
    if (check({ type: 'everythingLooksGood' })) {
      enqueue('doSomething');
    }
  })
  ```
- There are also helper methos on `enqueue` for enqueueing built-in actions:
  - `enqueue.assign(...)`: Enqueues an `assign(...)` action
  - `enqueue.sendTo(...)`: Enqueues a `sendTo(...)` action
  - `enqueue.raise(...)`: Enqueues a `raise(...)` action
  - `enqueue.spawnChild(...)`: Enqueues a `spawnChild(...)` action
  - `enqueue.stopChild(...)`: Enqueues a `stopChild(...)` action
  - `enqueue.cancel(...)`: Enqueues a `cancel(...)` action

Enqueued actions can be called conditionally, but they cannot be enqueued asynchronously.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: enqueueActions(({ context, event, enqueue, check }) => {
    // assign action
    enqueue.assign({
      count: context.count + 1
    });

    // Conditional actions (replaces choose(...))
    if (event.someOption) {
      enqueue.sendTo('someActor', { type: 'blah', thing: context.thing });

      // other actions
      enqueue('namedAction');
      // with params
      enqueue({ type: 'greet', params: { message: 'hello' } });
    } else {
      // inline
      enqueue(() => console.log('hello'));

      // even built-in actions
    }

    // Use check(...) to conditionally enqueue actions based on a guard
    if (check({ type: 'someGuard' })) {
      // ...
    }

    // no return
  })
});
```

## Log action

The `log(...)` action is an easy way to log messages to the console.

_Example coming soon_


## Cancel action

The `cancel(...)` action cancels a delayed `sendTo(...)` or `raise(...)` action by their IDs:

```ts
import { createMachine, sendTo, cancel } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    event: {
      actions: sendTo(
        'someActor',
        { type: 'someEvent' },
        {
          // highlight-next-line
          id: 'someId',
          delay: 1000,
        },
      ),
    },
    cancelEvent: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: cancel('someId'),
    },
  },
});
```

## Stop child action

The `stopChild(...)` action stops a child actor. Actors can only be stopped from their parent actor:

```ts
import { createMachine, stopChild } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  context: ({ spawn }) => ({
    spawnedRef: spawn(fromPromise(/* ... */), { id: 'spawnedId' }),
  }),
  on: {
    stopById: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: stopChild('spawnedId'),
    },
    stopByRef: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: stopChild(({ context }) => context.spawnedRef),
    },
  },
});
```

## Modeling

If you only need to execute actions in response to events, you can create a [self-transition](/docs/transitions#self-transitions) that only has `actions: [ ... ]` defined. For example, a machine that only needs to assign to `context` in transitions may look like this:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  // highlight-start
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count + event.value,
      }),
    },
    decrement: {
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => context.count - event.value,
      }),
    },
  },
  // highlight-end
});
```

## Shorthands

- For simple actions, can specify action string instead of object
- Objects preferred for consistency

## TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.** 

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

You can strongly type the `actions` of your machine in the `types.actions` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    actions:
      | {
          type: 'track';
          params: {
            response: string;
          };
        }
      | { type: 'increment'; params: { value: number } };
    // highlight-end
  },
  // ...
  entry: [
    { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } },
    { type: 'increment', params: { value: 1 } },
  ],
});
```

If you want to setup default action implementations, you can also use the `setup({ ... })` function:

```ts
const machine = setup({
  // highlight-start
  actions: {
    track: (_, params: { response: string }) => {
      // ...
    },
    increment: (_, params: { value: number }) => {
      // ...
    }
  }
  // highlight-end
}).createMachine({
  // ...
  entry: [
    { type: 'track', params: { response: 'good' } },
    { type: 'increment', params: { value: 1 } },
  ]
});
```

## Cheatsheet

### Entry and exit actions

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  // Entry action on root
  entry: [{ type: 'entryAction' }],
  exit: [{ type: 'exitAction' }],
  // highlight-end
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    start: {
      // highlight-start
      entry: [{ type:'startEntryAction' }],
      exit: [{ type:'startExitAction' }],
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
});
```

### Transition actions

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      actions: [
        // highlight-start
        { type: 'doSomething' },
        { type: 'doSomethingElse' },
        // highlight-end
      ]
    }
  }
});
```

### Inline action functions

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      actions: [
        // highlight-start
        ({ context, event }) => {
          console.log(context, event);
        }
        // highlight-end
      ]
    }
  }
});
```

### Setting up actions

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const someAction = () => {
  //...
}

const machine = setup({
  actions: {
    someAction
  }
}).createMachine({
  entry: [
    // highlight-start
    { type: 'someAction' }
    // highlight-end
  ],
  // ...
})
```

### Providing actions

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const someAction = () => {
  //...
}

const machine = setup({
  actions: {
    someAction
  }
}).createMachine({
  // ...
});

const modifiedMachine = machine.provide({
  someAction: () => {
    // Overridden action implementation
  }
});
```

### Assign action

**With property assigners**

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign({
        count: ({ context, event }) => {
          return context.count + event.value;
        }
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

**With function assigners**

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    count: 0,
  },
  on: {
    increment: {
      // highlight-start
      actions: assign(({ context, event }) => {
        return {
          count: context.count + event.value
        };
      }),
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

### Raise action

Coming soon...

### Send-to action

Coming soon...

### Enqueue actions

```ts
import { createMachine, enqueueActions } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  entry: enqueueActions(({ enqueue, check }) => {
    enqueue({ type: 'someAction' });

    if (check({ type: 'someGuard' })) {
      enqueue({ type: 'anotherAction' });
    }

    enqueue.assign({
      count: 0
    })

    enqueue.sendTo('someActor', { type: 'someEvent' });

    enqueue.raise({ type: 'anEvent' })
  })
  // highlight-end
});
```
