docs/actors.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Actors'
---

When you run a state machine, it becomes an actor: a running process that can receive events, send events and change its behavior based on the events it receives, which can cause effects outside of the actor.

In state machines, actors can be **invoked** or **spawned**. These are essentially the same, with the only difference being how the actor’s lifecycle is controlled.

- An **invoked actor** is started when its parent machine enters the [state](states.mdx) it is invoked in, and stopped when that state is exited.
- A **spawned actor** is started in a [transition](transitions.mdx) and stopped either with a [`stop(...)` action](actions.mdx#stop-action) or when its parent machine is stopped.

:::tip

Watch our [“What are invoked actors?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRMS8NYKWnA&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=9) (1m57s).

:::

## Actor model

In the actor model, actors are objects that can communicate with each other. They are independent “live” entities that communicate via asynchronous message passing. In XState, these messages are referred to as _[events](transitions.mdx)_.

- An actor has its own internal, encapsulated state that can only be updated by the actor itself. An actor may choose to update its internal state in response to a message it receives, but it cannot be updated by any other entity.
- Actors communicate with other actors by sending and receiving events asynchronously.
- Actors process one message at a time. They have an internal “mailbox” that acts like an event queue, processing events one at a time.
- Internal actor state is not shared between actors. The only way for an actor to share any part of its internal state is by:
  - Sending events to other actors
  - Or emitting snapshots, which can be considered implicit events sent to subscribers.
- Actors can create (spawn/invoke) new actors.

## Actor logic

Actor logic is the actor’s logical “model” (brain, blueprint, DNA, etc.) It describes how the actor should change behavior when receiving an event. You can create actor logic using **[actor logic creators](#actor-logic-creators)**.

In XState, actor logic is defined by an object containing methods like `.transition(...)`, `.getInitialState()`, `.getSnapshot()`, and more. This object tells an interpreter how to update an actor’s internal state when it receives an event and which effects to execute (if any).

## Creating actors

You can create an actor, which is a “live” instance of some actor logic, via `createActor(actorLogic, options?)`. The `createActor(...)` function takes the following arguments:

- `actorLogic`: the [actor logic](actors.mdx#actor-logic) to create an actor from
- `options` (optional): actor options

When you create an actor from actor logic via `createActor(actorLogic)`, you implicitly create an [actor system](system.mdx) where the created actor is the root actor. Any actors spawned from this root actor and its descendants are part of that actor system. The actor must be started by calling `actor.start()`, which will also start the actor system:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';
import { someActorLogic } from './someActorLogic.ts';

const actor = createActor(someActorLogic);

actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});

actor.start();

// Now the actor can receive events
actor.send({ type: 'someEvent' });
```

You can stop root actors by calling `actor.stop()`, which will also stop the actor system and all actors in that system:

```ts
// Stops the root actor, actor system, and actors in the system
actor.stop();
```

### Invoking and spawning actors

An invoked actor represents a state-based actor, so it is stopped when the invoking state is exited. Invoked actors are used for a finite/known number of actors.

A spawned actor represents multiple entities that can be started at any time and stopped at any time. Spawed actors are action-based and used for a dynamic or unknown number of actors.

An example of the difference between invoking and spawning actors could occur in a todo app. When loading todos, a `loadTodos` actor would be an invoked actor; it represents a single state-based task. In comparison, each of the todos can themselves be spawned actors, and there can be a dynamic number of these actors.

- [Read more about invoking actors](invoke.mdx)
- [Read more about spawning actors](spawn.mdx)

## Actor snapshots

When an actor receives an event, its internal state may change. An actor may emit a **snapshot** when a state transition occurs. You can read an actor’s snapshot synchronously via `actor.getSnapshot()`.

```ts
import { fromPromise, createActor } from 'xstate';

async function fetchCount() {
  return Promise.resolve(42);
}

const countLogic = fromPromise(async () => {
  const count = await fetchCount();

  return count;
});

const countActor = createActor(countLogic);

countActor.start();

countActor.getSnapshot(); // logs undefined

// After the promise resolves...
countActor.getSnapshot();
// => {
//   output: 42,
//   status: 'done',
//   ...
// }
```

You can subscribe to an actor’s snapshot values via `actor.subscribe(observer)`. The observer will receive the actor’s snapshot value when it is emitted. The observer can be:

- A plain function that receives the latest snapshot, or
- An observer object whose `.next(snapshot)` method receives the latest snapshot

```ts
// Observer as a plain function
const subscription = actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});
```

```ts
// Observer as an object
const subscription = actor.subscribe({
  next(snapshot) {
    console.log(snapshot);
  },
  error(err) {
    // ...
  },
  complete() {
    // ...
  },
});
```

The return value of `actor.subscribe(observer)` is a subscription object that has an `.unsubscribe()` method. You can call `subscription.unsubscribe()` to unsubscribe the observer:

```ts
const subscription = actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  /* ... */
});

// Unsubscribe the observer
subscription.unsubscribe();
```

When the actor is stopped, all of its observers will automatically be unsubscribed.

You can initialize actor logic at a specific persisted internal state by passing the state in the second `options` argument of `createActor(logic, options)`. If the state is compatible with the actor logic, this will create an actor that will be started at that persisted state:

```ts
const persistedState = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('some-persisted-state'));

const actor = createActor(someLogic, {
  // highlight-start
  state: persistedState,
  // highlight-end
});

actor.subscribe(() => {
  localStorage.setItem(
    'some-persisted-state',
    JSON.stringify(actor.getPersistedState()),
  );
});

// Actor will start at persisted state
actor.start();
```

See [persistence](persistence.mdx) for more details.

You can wait for an actor’s snapshot to satisfy a predicate using the `waitFor(actor, predicate, options?)` helper function. The `waitFor(...)` function returns a promise that is:

- Resolved when the emitted snapshot satisfies the `predicate` function
- Resolved immediately if the current snapshot already satisfies the `predicate` function
- Rejected if an error is thrown or the `options.timeout` value is elapsed.

```ts
import { waitFor } from 'xstate';
import { countActor } from './countActor.ts';

const snapshot = await waitFor(
  countActor,
  (snapshot) => {
    return snapshot.context.count >= 100;
  },
  {
    timeout: 10_000, // 10 seconds (10,000 milliseconds)
  },
);

console.log(snapshot.output);
// => 100
```

## Actor logic creators

The types of actor logic you can create from XState are:

- [State machine logic (`createMachine(...)`)](#createmachine)
- [Promise logic (`fromPromise(...)`)](#frompromise)
- [Transition function logic (`fromTransition(...)`)](#fromtransition)
- [Observable logic (`fromObservable(...)`)](#fromobservable)
- [Event observable logic (`fromEventObservable(...)`)](#fromeventobservable)
- [Callback logic (`fromCallback(...)`)](#fromcallback)

### State machine logic (`createMachine(...)`) {#createmachine}

You can describe actor logic as a [state machine](machines.mdx). Actors created from state machine actor logic can:

- Receive events
- Send events to other actors
- Invoke/spawn child actors
- Emit snapshots of its state
- Output a value when the machine reaches its top-level final state

```ts
const toggleMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'toggle',
  initial: 'inactive',
  states: {
    inactive: {},
    active: {},
  },
});

const toggleActor = createActor(toggleMachine);

toggleActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  // snapshot is the machine's state
  console.log('state', snapshot.value);
  console.log('context', snapshot.context);
});
toggleActor.start();
// Logs 'inactive'
toggleActor.send({ type: 'toggle' });
// Logs 'active'
```

### Promise logic (`fromPromise(...)`) {#frompromise}

Promise actor logic is described by an async process that resolves or rejects after some time. Actors created from promise logic (“promise actors”) can:

- Emit the resolved value of the promise
- Output the resolved value of the promise

Sending events to promise actors will have no effect.

```ts
const promiseLogic = fromPromise(() => {
  return fetch('https://example.com/...').then((data) => data.json());
});

const promiseActor = createActor(promiseLogic);
promiseActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});
promiseActor.start();
// => {
//   output: undefined,
//   status: 'active'
//   ...
// }

// After promise resolves
// => {
//   output: { ... },
//   status: 'done',
//   ...
// }
```

### Transition function logic (`fromTransition(...)`) {#fromtransition}

Transition actor logic is described by a [transition function](migration.mdx#use-actor-logic-creators-for-invokesrc-instead-of-functions), similar to a [reducer](cheatsheet#creating-transition-logic). Transition functions take the current `state` and received `event` object as arguments, and return the next state. Actors created from transition logic (“transition actors”) can:

- Receive events
- Emit snapshots of its state

```ts
const transitionLogic = fromTransition(
  (state, event) => {
    if (event.type === 'increment') {
      return {
        ...state,
        count: state.count + 1,
      };
    }
    return state;
  },
  { count: 0 },
);

const transitionActor = createActor(transitionLogic);
transitionActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});
transitionActor.start();
// => {
//   status: 'active',
//   context: { count: 0 },
//   ...
// }

transitionActor.send({ type: 'increment' });
// => {
//   status: 'active',
//   context: { count: 1 },
//   ...
// }
```

### Observable logic (`fromObservable(...)`) {#fromobservable}

Observable actor logic is described by an [observable stream of values](#fromObservable). Actors created from observable logic (“observable actors”) can:

- Emit snapshots of its emitted value

Sending events to observable actors will have no effect.

```ts
const secondLogic = fromObservable(() => interval(1000));

const secondActor = createActor(secondLogic);

secondActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot.context);
});

secondActor.start();
// At every second:
// Logs 0
// Logs 1
// Logs 2
// ...
```

### Event observable logic (`fromEventObservable(...)` {#fromeventobservable}

Event observable actor logic is described by an observable stream of [event objects](transitions.mdx#event-objects). Actors created from event observable logic (“event observable actors”) can:

- Implicitly send events to its parent actor
- Emit snapshots of its emitted event objects

Sending events to event observable actors will have no effect.

```ts
const mouseClickLogic = fromEventObservable(() =>
  fromEventPattern(document.body, 'click'),
);

const canvasMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    // Will send mouse click events to the canvas actor
    src: mouseClickLogic,
  },
});

const canvasActor = createActor(canvasMachine);
canvasActor.start();
```

### Callback logic (`fromCallback(...)`) {#fromcallback}

Callback actor logic is described by a callback function that receives a single object argument that includes a `sendBack(event)` function and a `receive(event => ...)` function. Actors created from callback logic (“callback actors”) can:

- Receive events via the `receive` function
- Send events to the parent actor via the `sendBack` function

```ts
const callbackLogic = fromCallback(({ sendBack, receive }) => {
  let lockStatus = 'unlocked';

  const handler = (event) => {
    if (lockStatus === 'locked') {
      return;
    }
    sendBack(event);
  };

  receive((event) => {
    if (event.type === 'lock') {
      lockStatus = 'locked';
    } else if (event.type === 'unlock') {
      lockStatus = 'unlocked';
    }
  });

  document.body.addEventListener('click', handler);

  return () => {
    document.body.removeEventListener('click', handler);
  };
});
```

Callback actors are a bit different from other actors in that they do not do the following:

- Do not work with `onDone` or `onError`
- Do not produce a snapshot using `.getSnapshot()`
- Do not emit values when used with `.subscribe()`
- Can not be stopped with `.stop()`

You may choose to use `sendBack` to report caught errors to the parent actor. This is especially helpful for handling promise rejections within a callback function, which will not be caught by [`onError`](invoke.mdx#onerror).

Callback functions cannot be `async` functions. But it is possible to execute a Promise within a callback function.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'running',
  states: {
    running: {
      invoke: {
        src: fromCallback(({ sendBack }) => {
          // highlight-start
          somePromise()
            .then((data) => sendBack({ type: 'done', data }))
            .catch((error) => sendBack({ type: 'error', data: error }));
          // highlight-end

          return () => {
            /* cleanup function */
          };
        }),
      },
      // highlight-start
      on: {
        error: {
          actions: ({ event }) => console.error(event.data),
        },
      },
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Higher-level actor logic

Higher-level actor logic enhances existing actor logic with additional functionality. For example, you can create actor logic that logs or persists actor state:

```ts
function withLogging(actorLogic) {
  const enhancedLogic = {
    ...actorLogic,
    transition: (state, event, actorCtx) => {
      console.log('State:', state);
      return actorLogic.transition(state, event, actorCtx);
    },
  };

  return enhancedLogic;
}

const loggingToggleLogic = withLogging(toggleLogic);
```

## Custom actors

_Coming soon_

## Empty actors

Actor that does nothing and only has a single emitted snapshot: `undefined`

In XState, an empty actor is an actor that does nothing and only has a single emitted snapshot: `undefined`.

This is useful for testing, such as stubbing out an actor that is not yet implemented. It can also be useful in framework integrations, such as `@xstate/react`, where an actor may not be available yet:

```ts
import { createEmptyActor, AnyActorRef } from 'xstate';
import { useSelector } from '@xstate/react';
const emptyActor = createEmptyActor();

function Component(props: { actor?: AnyActorRef }) {
  const data = useSelector(
    props.actor ?? emptyActor,
    (snapshot) => snapshot.context.data,
  );

  // data is `undefined` if `props.actor` is undefined
  // Otherwise, it is the data from the actor

  // ...
}
```

## TypeScript

You can strongly type the `actors` of your machine in the `types.actors` property of the machine config.

```ts
const fetcher = fromPromise(
  async ({ input }: { input: { userId: string } }) => {
    const user = await fetchUser(input.userId);

    return user;
  },
);

const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    actors: {
      src: 'fetchData'; // src name (inline behaviors ideally inferred)
      id: 'fetch1' | 'fetch2'; // possible ids (optional)
      logic: typeof fetcher;
    };
    // highlight-end
  },
  invoke: {
    src: 'fetchData', // strongly typed
    id: 'fetch2', // strongly typed
    onDone: {
      actions: ({ event }) => {
        event.output; // strongly typed as { result: string }
      },
    },
    input: { userId: '42' }, // strongly typed
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Link to relevant studio content from XState docs
Closes STA-5673

docs/actors.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Actors'
---

When you run a state machine, it becomes an actor: a running process that can receive events, send events and change its behavior based on the events it receives, which can cause effects outside of the actor.

In state machines, actors can be **invoked** or **spawned**. These are essentially the same, with the only difference being how the actor’s lifecycle is controlled.

- An **invoked actor** is started when its parent machine enters the [state](states.mdx) it is invoked in, and stopped when that state is exited.
- A **spawned actor** is started in a [transition](transitions.mdx) and stopped either with a [`stop(...)` action](actions.mdx#stop-action) or when its parent machine is stopped.

:::studio

You can visualize your state machines and easily invoke actors in our drag-and-drop Stately editor. [Read more about actors in Stately’s editor](editor-actions-and-actors.mdx).

:::

:::tip

Watch our [“What are invoked actors?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRMS8NYKWnA&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=9) (1m57s).

:::

## Actor model

In the actor model, actors are objects that can communicate with each other. They are independent “live” entities that communicate via asynchronous message passing. In XState, these messages are referred to as _[events](transitions.mdx)_.

- An actor has its own internal, encapsulated state that can only be updated by the actor itself. An actor may choose to update its internal state in response to a message it receives, but it cannot be updated by any other entity.
- Actors communicate with other actors by sending and receiving events asynchronously.
- Actors process one message at a time. They have an internal “mailbox” that acts like an event queue, processing events one at a time.
- Internal actor state is not shared between actors. The only way for an actor to share any part of its internal state is by:
  - Sending events to other actors
  - Or emitting snapshots, which can be considered implicit events sent to subscribers.
- Actors can create (spawn/invoke) new actors.

## Actor logic

Actor logic is the actor’s logical “model” (brain, blueprint, DNA, etc.) It describes how the actor should change behavior when receiving an event. You can create actor logic using **[actor logic creators](#actor-logic-creators)**.

In XState, actor logic is defined by an object containing methods like `.transition(...)`, `.getInitialState()`, `.getSnapshot()`, and more. This object tells an interpreter how to update an actor’s internal state when it receives an event and which effects to execute (if any).

## Creating actors

You can create an actor, which is a “live” instance of some actor logic, via `createActor(actorLogic, options?)`. The `createActor(...)` function takes the following arguments:

- `actorLogic`: the [actor logic](actors.mdx#actor-logic) to create an actor from
- `options` (optional): actor options

When you create an actor from actor logic via `createActor(actorLogic)`, you implicitly create an [actor system](system.mdx) where the created actor is the root actor. Any actors spawned from this root actor and its descendants are part of that actor system. The actor must be started by calling `actor.start()`, which will also start the actor system:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';
import { someActorLogic } from './someActorLogic.ts';

const actor = createActor(someActorLogic);

actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});

actor.start();

// Now the actor can receive events
actor.send({ type: 'someEvent' });
```

You can stop root actors by calling `actor.stop()`, which will also stop the actor system and all actors in that system:

```ts
// Stops the root actor, actor system, and actors in the system
actor.stop();
```

### Invoking and spawning actors

An invoked actor represents a state-based actor, so it is stopped when the invoking state is exited. Invoked actors are used for a finite/known number of actors.

A spawned actor represents multiple entities that can be started at any time and stopped at any time. Spawed actors are action-based and used for a dynamic or unknown number of actors.

An example of the difference between invoking and spawning actors could occur in a todo app. When loading todos, a `loadTodos` actor would be an invoked actor; it represents a single state-based task. In comparison, each of the todos can themselves be spawned actors, and there can be a dynamic number of these actors.

- [Read more about invoking actors](invoke.mdx)
- [Read more about spawning actors](spawn.mdx)

## Actor snapshots

When an actor receives an event, its internal state may change. An actor may emit a **snapshot** when a state transition occurs. You can read an actor’s snapshot synchronously via `actor.getSnapshot()`.

```ts
import { fromPromise, createActor } from 'xstate';

async function fetchCount() {
  return Promise.resolve(42);
}

const countLogic = fromPromise(async () => {
  const count = await fetchCount();

  return count;
});

const countActor = createActor(countLogic);

countActor.start();

countActor.getSnapshot(); // logs undefined

// After the promise resolves...
countActor.getSnapshot();
// => {
//   output: 42,
//   status: 'done',
//   ...
// }
```

You can subscribe to an actor’s snapshot values via `actor.subscribe(observer)`. The observer will receive the actor’s snapshot value when it is emitted. The observer can be:

- A plain function that receives the latest snapshot, or
- An observer object whose `.next(snapshot)` method receives the latest snapshot

```ts
// Observer as a plain function
const subscription = actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});
```

```ts
// Observer as an object
const subscription = actor.subscribe({
  next(snapshot) {
    console.log(snapshot);
  },
  error(err) {
    // ...
  },
  complete() {
    // ...
  },
});
```

The return value of `actor.subscribe(observer)` is a subscription object that has an `.unsubscribe()` method. You can call `subscription.unsubscribe()` to unsubscribe the observer:

```ts
const subscription = actor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  /* ... */
});

// Unsubscribe the observer
subscription.unsubscribe();
```

When the actor is stopped, all of its observers will automatically be unsubscribed.

You can initialize actor logic at a specific persisted internal state by passing the state in the second `options` argument of `createActor(logic, options)`. If the state is compatible with the actor logic, this will create an actor that will be started at that persisted state:

```ts
const persistedState = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('some-persisted-state'));

const actor = createActor(someLogic, {
  // highlight-start
  state: persistedState,
  // highlight-end
});

actor.subscribe(() => {
  localStorage.setItem(
    'some-persisted-state',
    JSON.stringify(actor.getPersistedState()),
  );
});

// Actor will start at persisted state
actor.start();
```

See [persistence](persistence.mdx) for more details.

You can wait for an actor’s snapshot to satisfy a predicate using the `waitFor(actor, predicate, options?)` helper function. The `waitFor(...)` function returns a promise that is:

- Resolved when the emitted snapshot satisfies the `predicate` function
- Resolved immediately if the current snapshot already satisfies the `predicate` function
- Rejected if an error is thrown or the `options.timeout` value is elapsed.

```ts
import { waitFor } from 'xstate';
import { countActor } from './countActor.ts';

const snapshot = await waitFor(
  countActor,
  (snapshot) => {
    return snapshot.context.count >= 100;
  },
  {
    timeout: 10_000, // 10 seconds (10,000 milliseconds)
  },
);

console.log(snapshot.output);
// => 100
```

## Actor logic creators

The types of actor logic you can create from XState are:

- [State machine logic (`createMachine(...)`)](#createmachine)
- [Promise logic (`fromPromise(...)`)](#frompromise)
- [Transition function logic (`fromTransition(...)`)](#fromtransition)
- [Observable logic (`fromObservable(...)`)](#fromobservable)
- [Event observable logic (`fromEventObservable(...)`)](#fromeventobservable)
- [Callback logic (`fromCallback(...)`)](#fromcallback)

### State machine logic (`createMachine(...)`) {#createmachine}

You can describe actor logic as a [state machine](machines.mdx). Actors created from state machine actor logic can:

- Receive events
- Send events to other actors
- Invoke/spawn child actors
- Emit snapshots of its state
- Output a value when the machine reaches its top-level final state

```ts
const toggleMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'toggle',
  initial: 'inactive',
  states: {
    inactive: {},
    active: {},
  },
});

const toggleActor = createActor(toggleMachine);

toggleActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  // snapshot is the machine's state
  console.log('state', snapshot.value);
  console.log('context', snapshot.context);
});
toggleActor.start();
// Logs 'inactive'
toggleActor.send({ type: 'toggle' });
// Logs 'active'
```

### Promise logic (`fromPromise(...)`) {#frompromise}

Promise actor logic is described by an async process that resolves or rejects after some time. Actors created from promise logic (“promise actors”) can:

- Emit the resolved value of the promise
- Output the resolved value of the promise

Sending events to promise actors will have no effect.

```ts
const promiseLogic = fromPromise(() => {
  return fetch('https://example.com/...').then((data) => data.json());
});

const promiseActor = createActor(promiseLogic);
promiseActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});
promiseActor.start();
// => {
//   output: undefined,
//   status: 'active'
//   ...
// }

// After promise resolves
// => {
//   output: { ... },
//   status: 'done',
//   ...
// }
```

### Transition function logic (`fromTransition(...)`) {#fromtransition}

Transition actor logic is described by a [transition function](migration.mdx#use-actor-logic-creators-for-invokesrc-instead-of-functions), similar to a [reducer](cheatsheet#creating-transition-logic). Transition functions take the current `state` and received `event` object as arguments, and return the next state. Actors created from transition logic (“transition actors”) can:

- Receive events
- Emit snapshots of its state

```ts
const transitionLogic = fromTransition(
  (state, event) => {
    if (event.type === 'increment') {
      return {
        ...state,
        count: state.count + 1,
      };
    }
    return state;
  },
  { count: 0 },
);

const transitionActor = createActor(transitionLogic);
transitionActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot);
});
transitionActor.start();
// => {
//   status: 'active',
//   context: { count: 0 },
//   ...
// }

transitionActor.send({ type: 'increment' });
// => {
//   status: 'active',
//   context: { count: 1 },
//   ...
// }
```

### Observable logic (`fromObservable(...)`) {#fromobservable}

Observable actor logic is described by an [observable stream of values](#fromObservable). Actors created from observable logic (“observable actors”) can:

- Emit snapshots of its emitted value

Sending events to observable actors will have no effect.

```ts
const secondLogic = fromObservable(() => interval(1000));

const secondActor = createActor(secondLogic);

secondActor.subscribe((snapshot) => {
  console.log(snapshot.context);
});

secondActor.start();
// At every second:
// Logs 0
// Logs 1
// Logs 2
// ...
```

### Event observable logic (`fromEventObservable(...)` {#fromeventobservable}

Event observable actor logic is described by an observable stream of [event objects](transitions.mdx#event-objects). Actors created from event observable logic (“event observable actors”) can:

- Implicitly send events to its parent actor
- Emit snapshots of its emitted event objects

Sending events to event observable actors will have no effect.

```ts
const mouseClickLogic = fromEventObservable(() =>
  fromEventPattern(document.body, 'click'),
);

const canvasMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    // Will send mouse click events to the canvas actor
    src: mouseClickLogic,
  },
});

const canvasActor = createActor(canvasMachine);
canvasActor.start();
```

### Callback logic (`fromCallback(...)`) {#fromcallback}

Callback actor logic is described by a callback function that receives a single object argument that includes a `sendBack(event)` function and a `receive(event => ...)` function. Actors created from callback logic (“callback actors”) can:

- Receive events via the `receive` function
- Send events to the parent actor via the `sendBack` function

```ts
const callbackLogic = fromCallback(({ sendBack, receive }) => {
  let lockStatus = 'unlocked';

  const handler = (event) => {
    if (lockStatus === 'locked') {
      return;
    }
    sendBack(event);
  };

  receive((event) => {
    if (event.type === 'lock') {
      lockStatus = 'locked';
    } else if (event.type === 'unlock') {
      lockStatus = 'unlocked';
    }
  });

  document.body.addEventListener('click', handler);

  return () => {
    document.body.removeEventListener('click', handler);
  };
});
```

Callback actors are a bit different from other actors in that they do not do the following:

- Do not work with `onDone` or `onError`
- Do not produce a snapshot using `.getSnapshot()`
- Do not emit values when used with `.subscribe()`
- Can not be stopped with `.stop()`

You may choose to use `sendBack` to report caught errors to the parent actor. This is especially helpful for handling promise rejections within a callback function, which will not be caught by [`onError`](invoke.mdx#onerror).

Callback functions cannot be `async` functions. But it is possible to execute a Promise within a callback function.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'running',
  states: {
    running: {
      invoke: {
        src: fromCallback(({ sendBack }) => {
          // highlight-start
          somePromise()
            .then((data) => sendBack({ type: 'done', data }))
            .catch((error) => sendBack({ type: 'error', data: error }));
          // highlight-end

          return () => {
            /* cleanup function */
          };
        }),
      },
      // highlight-start
      on: {
        error: {
          actions: ({ event }) => console.error(event.data),
        },
      },
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Higher-level actor logic

Higher-level actor logic enhances existing actor logic with additional functionality. For example, you can create actor logic that logs or persists actor state:

```ts
function withLogging(actorLogic) {
  const enhancedLogic = {
    ...actorLogic,
    transition: (state, event, actorCtx) => {
      console.log('State:', state);
      return actorLogic.transition(state, event, actorCtx);
    },
  };

  return enhancedLogic;
}

const loggingToggleLogic = withLogging(toggleLogic);
```

## Custom actors

_Coming soon_

## Empty actors

Actor that does nothing and only has a single emitted snapshot: `undefined`

In XState, an empty actor is an actor that does nothing and only has a single emitted snapshot: `undefined`.

This is useful for testing, such as stubbing out an actor that is not yet implemented. It can also be useful in framework integrations, such as `@xstate/react`, where an actor may not be available yet:

```ts
import { createEmptyActor, AnyActorRef } from 'xstate';
import { useSelector } from '@xstate/react';
const emptyActor = createEmptyActor();

function Component(props: { actor?: AnyActorRef }) {
  const data = useSelector(
    props.actor ?? emptyActor,
    (snapshot) => snapshot.context.data,
  );

  // data is `undefined` if `props.actor` is undefined
  // Otherwise, it is the data from the actor

  // ...
}
```

## TypeScript

You can strongly type the `actors` of your machine in the `types.actors` property of the machine config.

```ts
const fetcher = fromPromise(
  async ({ input }: { input: { userId: string } }) => {
    const user = await fetchUser(input.userId);

    return user;
  },
);

const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    actors: {
      src: 'fetchData'; // src name (inline behaviors ideally inferred)
      id: 'fetch1' | 'fetch2'; // possible ids (optional)
      logic: typeof fetcher;
    };
    // highlight-end
  },
  invoke: {
    src: 'fetchData', // strongly typed
    id: 'fetch2', // strongly typed
    onDone: {
      actions: ({ event }) => {
        event.output; // strongly typed as { result: string }
      },
    },
    input: { userId: '42' }, // strongly typed
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
