docs/admonition-examples.mdx, before:

---
title: Admonition examples
---

This page shows the different admonitions and how they render.

## Default admonitions

These admonitions come default with Docusaurus, but have custom markup and styling.

### Tip

:::tip

This is a tip admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::tip

This is a tip admonition with no heading.

:::
```

### Caution

:::caution

## Warning

This is a caution admonition with an h2 heading.

:::

```
:::caution

## Warning

This is a caution admonition with an h2 heading.

:::
```

### Note

:::note

This is a note admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::note

This is a note admonition with no heading.

:::
```

### Danger

:::danger

### Danger

This is a danger admonition with an h3 heading.

:::

```
:::danger

### Danger

This is a danger admonition with an h3 heading.

:::
```

### Info

:::info

This is an info admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::info

This is an info admonition with no heading.

:::
```

## Stately custom admonitions

These are custom admonitions created for Stately.

### Stately/Studio

:::studio

This is a studio admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::studio

This is a studio admonition with no heading.

:::
```

### XState

:::xstate

## How its done in XState

This is an XState admonition with an h2 heading.

:::

```
:::xstate

## How its done in XState

This is an XState admonition with an h2 heading.

:::
```

### TypeScript

:::typescript

This is a TypeScript admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::typescript

This is a TypeScript admonition with no heading.

:::
```

Commit message:

Add new admonition for xstatewarning
For warning folks about XState v5 alpha features. Closes STA-3400

docs/admonition-examples.mdx, after:

---
title: Admonition examples
---

This page shows the different admonitions and how they render.

## Default admonitions

These admonitions come default with Docusaurus, but have custom markup and styling.

### Tip

:::tip

This is a tip admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::tip

This is a tip admonition with no heading.

:::
```

### Caution

:::caution

## Warning

This is a caution admonition with an h2 heading.

:::

```
:::caution

## Warning

This is a caution admonition with an h2 heading.

:::
```

### Note

:::note

This is a note admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::note

This is a note admonition with no heading.

:::
```

### Danger

:::danger

### Danger

This is a danger admonition with an h3 heading.

:::

```
:::danger

### Danger

This is a danger admonition with an h3 heading.

:::
```

### Info

:::info

This is an info admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::info

This is an info admonition with no heading.

:::
```

## Stately custom admonitions

These are custom admonitions created for Stately.

### Stately/Studio

:::studio

This is a studio admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::studio

This is a studio admonition with no heading.

:::
```

### XState

:::xstate

## How its done in XState

This is an XState admonition with an h2 heading.

:::

```
:::xstate

## How its done in XState

This is an XState admonition with an h2 heading.

:::
```

:::warningxstate

## XState v5 Alpha

`X feature` is only available in XState version 5. [Check out XState v5 Alpha on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-alpha.1).

:::

```
:::warningxstate

## XState v5 Alpha

`X feature` is only available in XState version 5. [Check out XState v5 Alpha on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-alpha.1).

:::
```

### TypeScript

:::typescript

This is a TypeScript admonition with no heading.

:::

```
:::typescript

This is a TypeScript admonition with no heading.

:::
```
