docs/assets.mdx, before:

---
title: Assets in Stately’s editor
description: 'Learn how to use assets on your states in Stately’s editor.'
---

# Assets

You can drag and drop assets on any state or upload them using the <Plus size={18} /> plus menu and <Paperclip size={18}/> **Asset** on any selected state.

:::studio

Assets are a premium feature of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade your existing plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

Assets are valuable when you want to include use cases, features, workflows, and more to your state machines. One of our most frequent requests is from teams who want to tie their logic to real-life user interfaces, and assets provide a way to connect user interface design to logic in a way your whole team can understand.

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=bf81f493-6855-43e7-a6aa-4551f1acdc6e" title="State assets"/>

## Order of assets

The first asset, indicated by the <Star size={18}/> star icon, is the asset shown on the canvas. 

Further assets are accessible from the state <Info size={18}/> **Details** panel, where you can also drag to reorder the assets and choose their [displayed size](#asset-sizes).

## Asset sizes

Once your asset is uploaded to your state, you can choose the display size from the **Size** menu that shows on hover over the asset, or from the dropdown menu in the state <Info size={18}/> **Details** panel:

- small **sm**
- medium **md**
- large **lg**
- extra large **xl**

:::tip

You can also add images from any URL using markdown in [state and transition descriptions](descriptions.mdx).

:::

Commit message:

Figma docs (#385)
* Distinguish between GitHub and Figma personal access tokens

* Add tip box linking to Figma docs from assets docs

* Add initial docs on Figma embeds

* Add Figma docs to v4 docs too

* Document Embed Figma frames in paid plan docs

Closes STA-6109

* Add Embed Figma Designs to pro features on pricing page

Closes STA-6107

* Add info about Figma tokens to privacy policy

Closes STA-6117

* Remove phrasing

---------

Co-authored-by: Nick <3409132+cirephe@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/assets.mdx, after:

---
title: Assets in Stately’s editor
description: 'Learn how to use assets on your states in Stately’s editor.'
---

# Assets

You can drag and drop assets on any state or upload them using the <Plus size={18} /> plus menu and <Paperclip size={18}/> **Asset** on any selected state.

:::studio

Assets are a premium feature of Stately Studio. You can try Stately Studio’s premium plans with a free trial. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade your existing plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

Assets are valuable when you want to include use cases, features, workflows, and more to your state machines. One of our most frequent requests is from teams who want to tie their logic to real-life user interfaces, and assets provide a way to connect user interface design to logic in a way your whole team can understand.

:::new

You can now [embed Figma frames](figma.mdx) that stay in sync with your Figma files.

:::

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=bf81f493-6855-43e7-a6aa-4551f1acdc6e" title="State assets"/>

## Order of assets

The first asset, indicated by the <Star size={18}/> star icon, is the asset shown on the canvas. 

Further assets are accessible from the state <Info size={18}/> **Details** panel, where you can also drag to reorder the assets and choose their [displayed size](#asset-sizes).

## Asset sizes

Once your asset is uploaded to your state, you can choose the display size from the **Size** menu that shows on hover over the asset, or from the dropdown menu in the state <Info size={18}/> **Details** panel:

- small **sm**
- medium **md**
- large **lg**
- extra large **xl**

:::tip

You can also add images from any URL using markdown in [state and transition descriptions](descriptions.mdx).

:::
