docs/context.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Context'
---

In XState, `context` is how you store data in a state machine [actor](actors.mdx).

The `context` property is available in all states and used to store data relevant to an actor. The `context` object is immutable, so you cannot directly modify it. Instead, for state machine logic, you can use the `assign(...)` action to update `context`.

The `context` property is _optional_; if the state machine only specifies [finite states](finite-states.mdx) and no external contextual data, it may not need `context`.

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // Initialize the state machine with context
  context: {
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.feedback);
});

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'Some feedback'
```

## Initial context

Set the initial context of a machine in the `context` property of the machine config:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
    rating: 5,
    // other properties
  },
});
```

The object you pass to `context` will be the initial `context` value for any actor created from this machine.

:::warningxstate

Do not mutate the `context` object. Instead, you should use the `assign(...)` action to update `context` immutably. If you mutate the `context` object, you may get unexpected behavior, such as mutating the `context` of other actors.

:::

### Lazy initial context

Context can be initialized lazily by passing a function that returns the initial `context` value:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: () => ({
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
    createdAt: Date.now(),
  }),
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine).start();

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().context.createdAt);
// logs the current timestamp
```

Lazy initial context is evaluated per actor, so each actor will have its own `context` object.

### Input

You can provide input data to a machine’s initial `context` by passing an `input` property to the `createActor(machine, { input })` function and using the `input` property from the first argument in the `context` function:

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {
    context: {} as {
      feedback: string;
      rating: number;
    },
    // highlight-start
    input: {} as {
      defaultRating: number;
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
}).createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    feedback: '',
    // highlight-next-line
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
  // highlight-end
}).start();

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().context.rating);
// logs 5
```

Learn more about [input](input.mdx).

## Updating context with `assign(...)`

Use the `assign(...)` action in a transition to update context:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.update': {
      actions: assign({
        feedback: ({ event }) => event.feedback,
      }),
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.feedback);
});

feedbackActor.start();

// logs 'Some feedback'

feedbackActor.send({
  type: 'feedback.update',
  feedback: 'Some other feedback',
});

// logs 'Some other feedback'
```

## Context and TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.**

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

You can strongly type the `context` of your machine in the `types.context` property of the actor setup..

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const machine = setup({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    context: {
      feedback: string;
      rating: number;
    };
    // highlight-end
  },
}).createMachine({
  // Initial context
  context: {
    feedback: '',
    rating: 5,
  },
  entry: ({ context }) => {
    context.feedback; // string
    context.rating; // number
  },
});
```

## Context cheatsheet

Use our XState context cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

### Cheatsheet: initial context

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: '',
  },
});
```

### Cheatsheet: lazy initial context

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: () => ({
    feedback: '',
    createdAt: Date.now(),
  }),
});
```

### Cheatsheet: updating context with `assign(...)`

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: '',
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.update': {
      actions: assign({
        feedback: ({ event }) => event.feedback,
      }),
    },
  },
});
```

### Cheatsheet: input

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {
    context: {} as {
      feedback: string;
      rating: number;
    },
    // highlight-start
    input: {} as {
      defaultRating: number;
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
}).createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    feedback: '',
    // highlight-next-line
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
  // highlight-end
}).start();
```

Commit message:

docs: clarify that context should be an object

docs/context.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Context'
---

In XState, `context` is how you store data in a state machine [actor](actors.mdx).

The `context` property is available in all states and used to store data relevant to an actor. The `context` object is immutable, so you cannot directly modify it. Instead, for state machine logic, you can use the `assign(...)` action to update `context`.

The `context` property is _optional_; if the state machine only specifies [finite states](finite-states.mdx) and no external contextual data, it may not need `context`.

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // Initialize the state machine with context
  context: {
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.feedback);
});

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'Some feedback'
```

:::warning

The `context` must be an object.  If you need to store a list of items, wrap it in an object, e.g., `context: { items: [] }`.

:::

## Initial context

Set the initial context of a machine in the `context` property of the machine config:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
    rating: 5,
    // other properties
  },
});
```

The object you pass to `context` will be the initial `context` value for any actor created from this machine.

:::warningxstate

Do not mutate the `context` object. Instead, you should use the `assign(...)` action to update `context` immutably. If you mutate the `context` object, you may get unexpected behavior, such as mutating the `context` of other actors.

:::

### Lazy initial context

Context can be initialized lazily by passing a function that returns the initial `context` value:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: () => ({
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
    createdAt: Date.now(),
  }),
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine).start();

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().context.createdAt);
// logs the current timestamp
```

Lazy initial context is evaluated per actor, so each actor will have its own `context` object.

### Input

You can provide input data to a machine’s initial `context` by passing an `input` property to the `createActor(machine, { input })` function and using the `input` property from the first argument in the `context` function:

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {
    context: {} as {
      feedback: string;
      rating: number;
    },
    // highlight-start
    input: {} as {
      defaultRating: number;
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
}).createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    feedback: '',
    // highlight-next-line
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
  // highlight-end
}).start();

console.log(feedbackActor.getSnapshot().context.rating);
// logs 5
```

Learn more about [input](input.mdx).

## Updating context with `assign(...)`

Use the `assign(...)` action in a transition to update context:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: 'Some feedback',
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.update': {
      actions: assign({
        feedback: ({ event }) => event.feedback,
      }),
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.context.feedback);
});

feedbackActor.start();

// logs 'Some feedback'

feedbackActor.send({
  type: 'feedback.update',
  feedback: 'Some other feedback',
});

// logs 'Some other feedback'
```

## Context and TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.**

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

You can strongly type the `context` of your machine in the `types.context` property of the actor setup..

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const machine = setup({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    context: {
      feedback: string;
      rating: number;
    };
    // highlight-end
  },
}).createMachine({
  // Initial context
  context: {
    feedback: '',
    rating: 5,
  },
  entry: ({ context }) => {
    context.feedback; // string
    context.rating; // number
  },
});
```

## Context cheatsheet

Use our XState context cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

### Cheatsheet: initial context

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: '',
  },
});
```

### Cheatsheet: lazy initial context

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: () => ({
    feedback: '',
    createdAt: Date.now(),
  }),
});
```

### Cheatsheet: updating context with `assign(...)`

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  context: {
    feedback: '',
  },
  on: {
    'feedback.update': {
      actions: assign({
        feedback: ({ event }) => event.feedback,
      }),
    },
  },
});
```

### Cheatsheet: input

```ts
import { setup, createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {
    context: {} as {
      feedback: string;
      rating: number;
    },
    // highlight-start
    input: {} as {
      defaultRating: number;
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
}).createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  context: ({ input }) => ({
    feedback: '',
    // highlight-next-line
    rating: input.defaultRating,
  }),
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine, {
  // highlight-start
  input: {
    defaultRating: 5,
  },
  // highlight-end
}).start();
```
