docs/delayed-transitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Delayed (after) transitions
---

**Delayed transitions** are transitions that only happen after a set amount of time. Delayed transitions are handy for building timeouts and intervals into your application logic. If another event occurs before the end of the timer, the transition doesn’t complete.

Delayed transitions are defined on the `after` property in milliseconds. They are often referred to as “after” transitions.

:::studio

You can easily visualize and simulate delayed transitions in Stately’s editor. [Read more about delayed transitions in Stately’s editor](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions/#delayed-after-transitions).

:::

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const pushTheButtonGame = createMachine({
  initial: 'waitingForButtonPush',
  states: {
    waitingForButtonPush: {
      // highlight-start
      after: {
        5000: {
          target: 'timedOut',
          actions: 'logThatYouGotTimedOut',
        },
      },
      // highlight-end
      on: {
        PUSH_BUTTON: {
          actions: 'logSuccess',
          target: 'success',
        },
      },
    },
    success: {},
    timedOut: {},
  },
});
```

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=78c59862-fc40-4b1e-8f9c-42f1b2ddc410" title="Push the button game"/>

:::tip

Watch our [“Delayed (after) transitions” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RE_eazRhrw&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=12) (1m17s).

:::

## Delays

You can define delays in a few ways: [inlined](#inlined-delays), [referenced](#referenced-delays), and as an expression.

### Inlined delays

You can define an inlined delay by specifying the delay time (in milliseconds) directly:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      after: {
        1000: { target: 'nextState' },
      },
    },
    nextState: {},
  },
});
```

This will transition to the `nextState` state after 1000ms.

### Referenced delays

You can also define referenced delays by specifying a string delay key, and providing the actual delay time separately.

For example:

```ts
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        after: {
          timeout: { target: 'nextState' },
        },
      },
      nextState: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    delays: {
      timeout: 1000,
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

## Lifecycle

Delayed transition timers are canceled when the state is exited.

## Testing

- Simulated clock

## TypeScript

You can strongly type the `delays` of your machine in the `types.delays` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    delays: 'shortTimeout' | 'longTimeout' | 'eventually';
    // highlight-end
    // ...
  },
  // ...
  after: {
    // Autocompleted
    shortTimeout: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      actions: raise(
        { type: 'anotherEvent' },
        {
          // Autocompleted
          delay: 'eventually',
        },
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

You can also setup the delay using the `setup()` function:

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const machine = setup({
  // highlight-start
  delays: {
    shortTimeout: 1000,
    longTimeout: 5000,
    eventually: 10_000
  }
  // highlight-end
}).createMachine({
  after: {
    shortTimeout: {/* ... */}
  }
});
```

## Cheatsheet

Use our XState delayed transitions cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

```ts
createMachine({
  after: {
    DELAY: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
}).provide({
  delays: {
    DELAY: 1000, // or expression
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Add typescript page (#323)
* Fix missing bracket in code example

* Fix typo

* Add TypeScript page

* Link to TypeScript page in relevant locations with TS admonition

docs/delayed-transitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Delayed (after) transitions
---

**Delayed transitions** are transitions that only happen after a set amount of time. Delayed transitions are handy for building timeouts and intervals into your application logic. If another event occurs before the end of the timer, the transition doesn’t complete.

Delayed transitions are defined on the `after` property in milliseconds. They are often referred to as “after” transitions.

:::studio

You can easily visualize and simulate delayed transitions in Stately’s editor. [Read more about delayed transitions in Stately’s editor](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions/#delayed-after-transitions).

:::

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const pushTheButtonGame = createMachine({
  initial: 'waitingForButtonPush',
  states: {
    waitingForButtonPush: {
      // highlight-start
      after: {
        5000: {
          target: 'timedOut',
          actions: 'logThatYouGotTimedOut',
        },
      },
      // highlight-end
      on: {
        PUSH_BUTTON: {
          actions: 'logSuccess',
          target: 'success',
        },
      },
    },
    success: {},
    timedOut: {},
  },
});
```

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=78c59862-fc40-4b1e-8f9c-42f1b2ddc410" title="Push the button game"/>

:::tip

Watch our [“Delayed (after) transitions” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RE_eazRhrw&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=12) (1m17s).

:::

## Delays

You can define delays in a few ways: [inlined](#inlined-delays), [referenced](#referenced-delays), and as an expression.

### Inlined delays

You can define an inlined delay by specifying the delay time (in milliseconds) directly:

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      after: {
        1000: { target: 'nextState' },
      },
    },
    nextState: {},
  },
});
```

This will transition to the `nextState` state after 1000ms.

### Referenced delays

You can also define referenced delays by specifying a string delay key, and providing the actual delay time separately.

For example:

```ts
const machine = createMachine(
  {
    initial: 'idle',
    states: {
      idle: {
        after: {
          timeout: { target: 'nextState' },
        },
      },
      nextState: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    delays: {
      timeout: 1000,
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

## Lifecycle

Delayed transition timers are canceled when the state is exited.

## Testing

- Simulated clock

## TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.** 

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

You can strongly type the `delays` of your machine in the `types.delays` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    delays: 'shortTimeout' | 'longTimeout' | 'eventually';
    // highlight-end
    // ...
  },
  // ...
  after: {
    // Autocompleted
    shortTimeout: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
  on: {
    someEvent: {
      actions: raise(
        { type: 'anotherEvent' },
        {
          // Autocompleted
          delay: 'eventually',
        },
      ),
    },
  },
});
```

You can also setup the delay using the `setup()` function:

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const machine = setup({
  // highlight-start
  delays: {
    shortTimeout: 1000,
    longTimeout: 5000,
    eventually: 10_000
  }
  // highlight-end
}).createMachine({
  after: {
    shortTimeout: {/* ... */}
  }
});
```

## Cheatsheet

Use our XState delayed transitions cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

```ts
createMachine({
  after: {
    DELAY: {
      /* ... */
    },
  },
}).provide({
  delays: {
    DELAY: 1000, // or expression
  },
});
```
