docs/design-mode.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Design mode'
description: 'Tour the features in Stately editor’s Design mode, including a guide to all the panels and how to use the editor.'
---

Design your state machine flows in Design Mode.

You can add new [states](states.mdx) by double-clicking anywhere on the canvas, and add [transitions and events](transitions.mdx) from the handles on each side of the states.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Numbered screenshot of Stately editor’s Design mode features. Described by list below."
    sources={{
      light: '/design-mode-signed-in.png',
      dark: '/design-mode-signed-in-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

1. **Editor menu**: access common Stately shortcuts and view options.
2. **Left drawer switch**: open and close the left drawer which contains the machines list (8) and tree view (9).
3. **Breadcrumb**: Your current [project](projects.mdx) and machine.
4. **Design/Simulate** switch: Switch between Design and [Simulate mode](simulate-mode.mdx).
5. **Share** button: Open the share options.
6. **<Code size={18} /> Export** button: open quick [export options](export-as-code.mdx).
7. **User** button: Open the [user menu](user-preferences.mdx).
8. **Machines list** (left drawer): List of machines in your current project.
9. **Tree view** (left drawer): Tree view of your current machine.
10. **Canvas**
11. **Right toolbox**: Contextual menu which shows <Info size={18} /> Details of current item highlighted on canvas.
12. **[Canvas view controls](canvas-view-controls.mdx)**: Undo/redo and zoom options for the canvas.
13. **<HelpCircle size={18} /> Help** button: open and close the help drawer.

Commit message:

Update design mode docs and screenshots

docs/design-mode.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Design mode'
description: 'Tour the features in Stately editor’s Design mode, including a guide to all the panels and how to use the editor.'
---

Design your state machine flows in Design Mode.

You can add new [states](states.mdx) by double-clicking anywhere on the canvas, and add [transitions and events](transitions.mdx) from the handles on each side of the states.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Numbered screenshot of Stately editor’s Design mode features. Described by list below."
    sources={{
      light: '/design-mode-signed-in.png',
      dark: '/design-mode-signed-in-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

1. **Editor menu**: access common Stately shortcuts and view options.
2. **Left drawer switch**: open and close the left drawer which contains the machines list.
3. Current [project](projects.mdx).
4. Current machine.
5. <Code size={18}/> **Code** panel.
6. <ListTree size={18} /> **Structure** panel.
7. **Share** button: Open the share options.
8. <Play size={18}/> [**Simulate**](simulate-mode.mdx).
9. <UploadCloud size={18}/> [**Deploy**](stately-sky-getting-started.mdx).
10. <Info size={18}/> **Details** panel for the currently selected machine, state, or transition.
11. <Code size={18}/> **Events** schema panel.
12. <Database size={18}/> [**Context**](context.mdx) schema panel.
13. <ClipboardCheck size={18}/> [**Tests**](/docs/generate-test-paths) panel.
14. Canvas: where your state machine is designed and displayed.
15. [Canvas tools](canvas-view-controls.mdx).
16. <History size={18}/> Current [version](versions.mdx) displayed on the canvas.
17. [Project visibility](projects.mdx).
18. [Canvas view controls](canvas-view-controls.mdx).
19. <HelpCircle size={18} /> Help button: open and close the help drawer.
