docs/editor-states.mdx, before:

---
title: States in Stately’s editor
---

In Stately, the rounded rectangle boxes are states. The **!** warning icon in the machine above indicates an unreachable state. The state is unreachable because it isn’t connected to the [initial state](initial-states.mdx) by a [transition](transitions.mdx).

## Create a state

:::tip

The fastest way to create a new state is by double-clicking in any empty space on the canvas.

:::

### Create a new target state

Each transition has a source state and a target state. To create a new target state from a source state:

1. Select the source state.
2. Press or drag from one of the <Plus size={18} /> handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.

[Read more about transitioning between source and target states](transitions.mdx#using-transitions-and-events-in-stately-studio).

### Create a new child state

[How to create child and parent states](parent-states.mdx).

## Delete a state

First, select the state you want to delete.

- Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot icon button to open the Edit menu and choose **Delete** to delete the selected state.
- Use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key to delete the selected state.

Commit message:

Move Stately history states info to subpage and improve subpages

docs/editor-states.mdx, after:

---
title: States in Stately’s editor
---

A [state](states.mdx) describes the machine’s status or mode, which could be as simple as *Paused* and *Playing*. A state machine can only be in one state at a time.

These states are “finite”; the machine can only move through the states you’ve pre-defined.

In Stately, the rounded rectangle boxes are states. The **!** warning icon in the machine above indicates an unreachable state. The state is unreachable because it isn’t connected to the [initial state](initial-states.mdx) by a [transition](transitions.mdx).

## Create a state

:::tip

The fastest way to create a new state is by double-clicking in any empty space on the canvas.

:::

### Create a new target state

Each transition has a source state and a target state. To create a new target state from a source state:

1. Select the source state.
2. Press or drag from one of the <Plus size={18} /> handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.

[Read more about transitioning between source and target states](transitions.mdx#using-transitions-and-events-in-stately-studio).

### Create a new child state

[How to create child and parent states](parent-states.mdx).

## Delete a state

First, select the state you want to delete.

- Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot icon button to open the Edit menu and choose **Delete** to delete the selected state.
- Use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key to delete the selected state.
