docs/eventless-transitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Eventless (always) transitions
---

**Eventless transitions** are transitions that happen without an explicit event. These transitions are *always* taken when the transition is enabled.

Eventless transitions are specified on the `always` state property and often referred to as “always” transitions.

:::studio

You can easily visualize and simulated eventless transitions in Stately’s editor. [Read more about eventless transitions in Stately’s editor](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions/#eventless-always-transitions).

:::

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
const machine = createmachine({
  states: {
    form: {
      initial: 'valid',
      states: {
        valid: {},
        invalid: {}
      },
      // highlight-start
      always: {
        guard: 'isValid',
        target: 'valid',
      }
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
});
```

## Eventless transitions and guards

Eventless transitions are taken immediately after normal transitions are taken. They are only taken if enabled, for example, if their [guards](guards.mdx) are true. This makes eventless transitions helpful in doing things when some condition is true.

## Avoid infinite loops

:::warningxstate

Since unguarded “always” transitions always run, you should be careful not to create an infinite loop. XState will help guard against most infinite loop scenarios.

:::

Eventless transitions with no `target` nor `guard` will cause an infinite loop. Transitions using `guard` and `actions` may run into an infinite loop if its `guard` keeps returning true.

You should define eventless transitions either with:

- `target`
- `guard` + `target`
- `guard` + `actions`
- `guard` + `target` + `actions`

If `target` is declared, the value should differ from the current state node.

## When to use

Eventless transitions can be helpful when a state change is necessary, but there is no specific trigger for that change.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  id: 'kettle',
  initial: 'lukewarm',
  context: {
    temperature: 80,
  },
  states: {
    lukewarm: {
      on: {
        boil: { target: 'heating' }
      }
    },
    heating: {
      always: {
        guard: ({ context }) => context.temperature > 100,
        target: 'boiling'
      }
    },
    boiling: {
      entry: ['turnOffLight'],
      always: {
        guard: ({ context }) => context.temperature <= 100,
        target: 'heating'
      }
    }
  },
  on: {
    'temp.update': {
      actions: ['updateTemperature'],
    }
  },
});
```

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=b2a299ef-efb8-4049-a242-2d197d27c931" title="Kettle with eventless transitions"/>

## TypeScript

Eventless transitions can potentially be enabled by any event, so the `event` type is the union of all possible events.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    events: { type: 'greet'; message: string } | { type: 'submit' };
  },
  // ...
  always: {
    actions: ({ event }) => {
      event.type; // 'greet' | 'submit'
    },
    guard: ({ event }) => {
      event.type; // 'greet' | 'submit'
      return true;
    },
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

### Root eventless (always) transition

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  always: {
    guard: 'isValid',
    actions: ['doSomething'],
  },
  // ...
});
```

### State eventless (always) transition

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    start: {
      always: {
        guard: 'isValid',
        target: 'otherState',
      },
    },
    otherState: {/* ... */}
  }
});
```

Commit message:

Add typescript page (#323)
* Fix missing bracket in code example

* Fix typo

* Add TypeScript page

* Link to TypeScript page in relevant locations with TS admonition

docs/eventless-transitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Eventless (always) transitions
---

**Eventless transitions** are transitions that happen without an explicit event. These transitions are *always* taken when the transition is enabled.

Eventless transitions are specified on the `always` state property and often referred to as “always” transitions.

:::studio

You can easily visualize and simulated eventless transitions in Stately’s editor. [Read more about eventless transitions in Stately’s editor](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions/#eventless-always-transitions).

:::

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
const machine = createmachine({
  states: {
    form: {
      initial: 'valid',
      states: {
        valid: {},
        invalid: {}
      },
      // highlight-start
      always: {
        guard: 'isValid',
        target: 'valid',
      }
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
});
```

## Eventless transitions and guards

Eventless transitions are taken immediately after normal transitions are taken. They are only taken if enabled, for example, if their [guards](guards.mdx) are true. This makes eventless transitions helpful in doing things when some condition is true.

## Avoid infinite loops

:::warningxstate

Since unguarded “always” transitions always run, you should be careful not to create an infinite loop. XState will help guard against most infinite loop scenarios.

:::

Eventless transitions with no `target` nor `guard` will cause an infinite loop. Transitions using `guard` and `actions` may run into an infinite loop if its `guard` keeps returning true.

You should define eventless transitions either with:

- `target`
- `guard` + `target`
- `guard` + `actions`
- `guard` + `target` + `actions`

If `target` is declared, the value should differ from the current state node.

## When to use

Eventless transitions can be helpful when a state change is necessary, but there is no specific trigger for that change.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  id: 'kettle',
  initial: 'lukewarm',
  context: {
    temperature: 80,
  },
  states: {
    lukewarm: {
      on: {
        boil: { target: 'heating' }
      }
    },
    heating: {
      always: {
        guard: ({ context }) => context.temperature > 100,
        target: 'boiling'
      }
    },
    boiling: {
      entry: ['turnOffLight'],
      always: {
        guard: ({ context }) => context.temperature <= 100,
        target: 'heating'
      }
    }
  },
  on: {
    'temp.update': {
      actions: ['updateTemperature'],
    }
  },
});
```

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?mode=design&machineId=b2a299ef-efb8-4049-a242-2d197d27c931" title="Kettle with eventless transitions"/>

## TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.** 

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

Eventless transitions can potentially be enabled by any event, so the `event` type is the union of all possible events.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    events: { type: 'greet'; message: string } | { type: 'submit' };
  },
  // ...
  always: {
    actions: ({ event }) => {
      event.type; // 'greet' | 'submit'
    },
    guard: ({ event }) => {
      event.type; // 'greet' | 'submit'
      return true;
    },
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

### Root eventless (always) transition

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  always: {
    guard: 'isValid',
    actions: ['doSomething'],
  },
  // ...
});
```

### State eventless (always) transition

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    start: {
      always: {
        guard: 'isValid',
        target: 'otherState',
      },
    },
    otherState: {/* ... */}
  }
});
```
