docs/generate-react.mdx, before:

---
title: Generate React app
---

**Generate React app** is an experimental feature that helps you generate a basic React app from your state machine. 

In the <Code size={18} /> **Code** panel, use **Generate React app** to generate the files required to run a React app using your state machine. You can copy the code from the generated files, or use **Open Sandbox** to open your generated React app in CodeSandbox. You can also [use the **Enhance app** button](#enhance-app) to generate a React UI using Stately AI.

:::tip

Community users can try **Generate React app** with a limited number of generations each month. [Upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

:::studio

**Generate React app** is a paid feature of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

You have 1000 generations available to use each month. The number of available generations is reset at the beginning of each calendar month.

## Enhance app

Use the **Enhance app** button after generating your React app to generate an enhanced user interface. Once generated, the dropdown menu in the top right of the modal gives you options to preview three different versions of your enhanced app, as well as the default app generated before the enhancement.

:::tip

When you use **Enhance app**, your state machine and generated React app is sent to OpenAI to generate the enhanced app.

:::

Commit message:

Note that generate React app uses XState v5

docs/generate-react.mdx, after:

---
title: Generate React app
---

**Generate React app** is an experimental feature that helps you generate a basic React app from your state machine. 

In the <Code size={18} /> **Code** panel, use **Generate React app** to generate the files required to run a React app using your state machine. You can copy the code from the generated files, or use **Open Sandbox** to open your generated React app in CodeSandbox. You can also [use the **Enhance app** button](#enhance-app) to generate a React UI using Stately AI.

Generate React app generates code for using with [XState V5](xstate.mdx). [Read about how to migrate from XState V4 to V5](migration.mdx).

:::tip

Community users can try **Generate React app** with a limited number of generations each month. [Upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

:::studio

**Generate React app** is a paid feature of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

You have 1000 generations available to use each month. The number of available generations is reset at the beginning of each calendar month.

## Enhance app

Use the **Enhance app** button after generating your React app to generate an enhanced user interface. Once generated, the dropdown menu in the top right of the modal gives you options to preview three different versions of your enhanced app, as well as the default app generated before the enhancement.

:::tip

When you use **Enhance app**, your state machine and generated React app is sent to OpenAI to generate the enhanced app.

:::
