docs/guards.mdx, before:

---
title: Guards
---

A **guard** is a condition function that the machine checks when it goes through an event. If the condition is `true`, the machine follows the transition to the next state. If the condition is `false`, the machine follows the rest of the conditions to the next state.

A **guarded transition** is a transition that is enabled only if its `guard` evaluates to `true`. The guard determines whether or not the transition can be enabled. Any transition can be a guarded transition.

Guards should be pure, synchronous functions that return either `true` or `false`.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...
    states: {
      form: {
        on: {
          'feedback.submit': {
            // highlight-next-line
            guard: 'isValid',
            target: 'submitting',
          },
        },
      },
      submitting: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    guards: {
      isValid: ({ context }) => {
        return context.feedback.length > 0;
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

## Multiple guarded transitions

If you want to have a single event transition to different states in certain situations, you can supply an array of guarded transitions. Each transition will be tested in order, and the first transition whose `guard` evaluates to `true` will be taken.

You can specify a default transition to be taken as the last transition in the array. If none of the guards evaluate to `true`, the default transition will be taken.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  prompt: {
    on: {
      // highlight-start
      'feedback.provide': [
        // Taken if 'sentimentGood' guard evaluates to `true`
        {
          guard: 'sentimentGood',
          target: 'thanks',
        },
        // Taken if none of the above guarded transitions are taken
        // and if 'sentimentBad' guard evaluates to `true`
        {
          guard: 'sentimentBad',
          target: 'form',
        },
        // Default transition
        { target: 'form' },
      ],
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Inline guards

You can define guards as an inline function. This is useful for quickly prototyping logic but we generally recommended using serialized guards (strings or objects) for better reusability and visualization.

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: ({ context, event }) => true,
    target: 'someState'
  }
}
```

## Guard object

A guard can be defined as an object with a `type`, which is the type of guard that references the provided guard implementation, and optional `params`, which can be read by the implemented guard:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...
    states: {
      // ...
      form: {
        on: {
          submit: {
            // highlight-next-line
            guard: { type: 'isValid', params: { maxLength: 50 } },
            target: 'submitting',
          },
        },
      },
      // ...
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    guards: {
      isValid: ({ context }, params) => {
        return (
          context.feedback.length > 0 &&
          context.feedback.length <= params.maxLength
        );
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

Guards can later be provided or overridden by providing custom guard implementations in the `.provide()` method:

```ts
const feedbackActor = createActor(
  // highlight-start
  feedbackMachine.provide({
    guards: {
      isValid: ({ context }, params) => {
        return (
          context.feedback.length > 0 &&
          context.feedback.length <= params.maxLength &&
          isNotSpam(context.feedback)
        );
      },
    },
  }),
  // highlight-end
).start();
```

## Higher-level guards

XState provides higher-level guards, which are guards that compose other guards. There are three higher-level guards – `and`, `or`, and `not`:

- `and([...])` - evaluates to `true` if all guards in `and([...guards])` evaluate to `true`
- `or([...])` - evaluates to `true` if _any_ guards in `or([...guards])` evaluate to `true`
- `not(...)` - evaluates to `true` if the guard in `not(guard)` evaluates to `false`

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: and(['isValid', 'isAuthorized']);
  }
}
```

Higher-level guards can be combined:

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: and(['isValid', or(['isAuthorized', 'isGuest'])]);
  }
}
```

## In-state guards

You can use the `stateIn(stateValue)` guard to check if the current state matches the provided `stateValue`. This is most useful for [parallel states](parallel-states.mdx).

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: stateIn('#state1');
  },
  anotherEvent: {
    guard: stateIn({ form: 'submitting' })
  }
}
```

In-state guards match the state of the entire machine, not the state node. There usually isn't a need to use in-state guards for regular states. Try to model transitions in your state machines so that you don't need to use in-state guards first.

## Shorthands

It is recommended to define guards as guard objects, e.g. `{ type: 'someGuard', params: { ... } }`. However, if a guard has no params, you can specify it as a string:

```ts
on: {
  someEvent: {
    // Equivalent to:
    // guard: { type: 'someGuard' }
    // highlight-next-line
    guard: 'someGuard';
  }
}
```

## TypeScript

You can strongly type the `guards` of your machine in the `types.guards` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    guards:
      | {
          type: 'isGreaterThan';
          params: {
            count: number;
          };
        }
      | { type: 'isAllowed' };
    // highlight-end
  },
  // ...
  on: {
    event: {
      guard: { type: 'isGreaterThan', params: { count: 5 } },
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_.

Commit message:

Link to relevant studio content from XState docs
Closes STA-5673

docs/guards.mdx, after:

---
title: Guards
---

A **guard** is a condition function that the machine checks when it goes through an event. If the condition is `true`, the machine follows the transition to the next state. If the condition is `false`, the machine follows the rest of the conditions to the next state.

A **guarded transition** is a transition that is enabled only if its `guard` evaluates to `true`. The guard determines whether or not the transition can be enabled. Any transition can be a guarded transition.

:::studio

You can easily visualize and simulate guarded transitions in Stately’s editor. [Read more about guards in Stately’s editor](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions/#add-guards).

:::

Guards should be pure, synchronous functions that return either `true` or `false`.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...
    states: {
      form: {
        on: {
          'feedback.submit': {
            // highlight-next-line
            guard: 'isValid',
            target: 'submitting',
          },
        },
      },
      submitting: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    guards: {
      isValid: ({ context }) => {
        return context.feedback.length > 0;
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

## Multiple guarded transitions

If you want to have a single event transition to different states in certain situations, you can supply an array of guarded transitions. Each transition will be tested in order, and the first transition whose `guard` evaluates to `true` will be taken.

You can specify a default transition to be taken as the last transition in the array. If none of the guards evaluate to `true`, the default transition will be taken.

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  prompt: {
    on: {
      // highlight-start
      'feedback.provide': [
        // Taken if 'sentimentGood' guard evaluates to `true`
        {
          guard: 'sentimentGood',
          target: 'thanks',
        },
        // Taken if none of the above guarded transitions are taken
        // and if 'sentimentBad' guard evaluates to `true`
        {
          guard: 'sentimentBad',
          target: 'form',
        },
        // Default transition
        { target: 'form' },
      ],
      // highlight-end
    },
  },
});
```

## Inline guards

You can define guards as an inline function. This is useful for quickly prototyping logic but we generally recommended using serialized guards (strings or objects) for better reusability and visualization.

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: ({ context, event }) => true,
    target: 'someState'
  }
}
```

## Guard object

A guard can be defined as an object with a `type`, which is the type of guard that references the provided guard implementation, and optional `params`, which can be read by the implemented guard:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine(
  {
    // ...
    states: {
      // ...
      form: {
        on: {
          submit: {
            // highlight-next-line
            guard: { type: 'isValid', params: { maxLength: 50 } },
            target: 'submitting',
          },
        },
      },
      // ...
    },
  },
  {
    // highlight-start
    guards: {
      isValid: ({ context }, params) => {
        return (
          context.feedback.length > 0 &&
          context.feedback.length <= params.maxLength
        );
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
);
```

Guards can later be provided or overridden by providing custom guard implementations in the `.provide()` method:

```ts
const feedbackActor = createActor(
  // highlight-start
  feedbackMachine.provide({
    guards: {
      isValid: ({ context }, params) => {
        return (
          context.feedback.length > 0 &&
          context.feedback.length <= params.maxLength &&
          isNotSpam(context.feedback)
        );
      },
    },
  }),
  // highlight-end
).start();
```

## Higher-level guards

XState provides higher-level guards, which are guards that compose other guards. There are three higher-level guards – `and`, `or`, and `not`:

- `and([...])` - evaluates to `true` if all guards in `and([...guards])` evaluate to `true`
- `or([...])` - evaluates to `true` if _any_ guards in `or([...guards])` evaluate to `true`
- `not(...)` - evaluates to `true` if the guard in `not(guard)` evaluates to `false`

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: and(['isValid', 'isAuthorized']);
  }
}
```

Higher-level guards can be combined:

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: and(['isValid', or(['isAuthorized', 'isGuest'])]);
  }
}
```

## In-state guards

You can use the `stateIn(stateValue)` guard to check if the current state matches the provided `stateValue`. This is most useful for [parallel states](parallel-states.mdx).

```ts
on: {
  event: {
    guard: stateIn('#state1');
  },
  anotherEvent: {
    guard: stateIn({ form: 'submitting' })
  }
}
```

In-state guards match the state of the entire machine, not the state node. There usually isn't a need to use in-state guards for regular states. Try to model transitions in your state machines so that you don't need to use in-state guards first.

## Shorthands

It is recommended to define guards as guard objects, e.g. `{ type: 'someGuard', params: { ... } }`. However, if a guard has no params, you can specify it as a string:

```ts
on: {
  someEvent: {
    // Equivalent to:
    // guard: { type: 'someGuard' }
    // highlight-next-line
    guard: 'someGuard';
  }
}
```

## TypeScript

You can strongly type the `guards` of your machine in the `types.guards` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    guards:
      | {
          type: 'isGreaterThan';
          params: {
            count: number;
          };
        }
      | { type: 'isAllowed' };
    // highlight-end
  },
  // ...
  on: {
    event: {
      guard: { type: 'isGreaterThan', params: { count: 5 } },
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_.
