docs/import-from-code.mdx, before:

---
title: Import from code
---

Importing from code is helpful if you’ve already built machines while working with [XState](xstate.mdx), or have created a machine using our older [Stately Viz](https://stately.ai/viz) but haven’t yet tried Stately Studio’s editor.

:::tip

Watch our [“Import from code” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DAoIFaugDLo) (2m24s).

:::

## Import code

Your code should be formatted as a [`createMachine()` factory function](https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/machines.html) before import. The importer has basic validation in case your machine has basic errors, including reminding you if the `createMachine` definition is missing.

[Check out an importable machine code example at the end of this page](/#machine-code-example).

:::warning

**Caution**: importing code will overwrite your current or selected machine unless you create a new machine from the **Machines list** inside a project.

:::

You may have multiple `createMachine`s included in the code you insert in the text area, but Stately Studio will only import the first machine found in the code. We plan to support importing multiple machines in the future.

### Import code to overwrite your machine from the code panel

1. Open the **Code** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Use the **Import** button to open the importer.
3. Paste or type your machine code into the text area.
4. Use the **Import** button to import your machine, overwriting your current machine.

### Import code to overwrite a machine from the machines list

1. Open the **Machines** list from the left drawer menu.
2. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot icon alongside a machine to open the machine options menu.
3. Use the **Import Code** option to open the import text area.
4. Paste or type your machine code into the text area.
5. Use the **Import** button to import your machine, overwriting the selected machine.

### Create a new machine inside a project using import code

1. Open the **Machines** list from the left drawer menu.
2. Use the **+** plus icon alongside the **Machines** heading to open the new machine options.
3. Enter a name for your new machine in the text input.
4. Select the **Import Code** switch to open the import text area.
5. Paste or type your machine code into the text area.
6. Use the **Create machine** button to import your machine as a new machine in your project.

## Machine code example

Below is an example of a `createMachine()` factory function which you can import as a machine without any errors:

```js
createMachine({
  id: 'Video',
  initial: 'Closed',
  description: 'Video player',
  states: {
    Closed: {
      on: {
        PLAY: {
          target: 'Opened',
        },
      },
    },
    Opened: {
      invoke: {
        src: 'startVideo',
      },
      initial: 'Playing',
      description: 'Fullscreen mode',
      states: {
        Playing: {
          on: {
            PAUSE: {
              target: 'Paused',
            },
          },
        },
        Paused: {
          on: {
            PLAY: {
              target: 'Playing',
            },
          },
        },
        Stopped: {
          type: 'final',
          after: {
            5000: {
              target: '#Video.Closed',
              actions: [],
              internal: false,
            },
          },
        },
      },
      on: {
        STOP: {
          target: '.Stopped',
        },
      },
    },
  },
  context: {},
  predictableActionArguments: true,
  preserveActionOrder: true,
});
```

Commit message:

Update docs for recent changes to UI (#309)
* Update docs for export to code/StackBlitz/CodeSandbox in Studio

Closes STA-4965, STA-4959, STA-4950, STA-5191

* Update Simulate mode docs for recent UI changes

* Document state assets

Closes STA-5664

* Update wording for admonitions on paid feature pages

Specify that free generations are available for generate flow
Closes STA-5296

* Add assets to v4 docs and sidebars

* Update projects docs for latest changes to UI

* Add info on zoom to selection to docs

* Add info about moving projects and machines to projects page

Closes STA-5321

* Update versions docs for latest changes to UI

Closes STA-5240

* Clarify roles required to move machines

* Simplify import from code page and remove refs to Machines list title

* Fix Lucide fork icon

* Fix URLs

* Update docs/discover.mdx

Co-authored-by: David Khourshid <davidkpiano@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: David Khourshid <davidkpiano@gmail.com>

docs/import-from-code.mdx, after:

---
title: Import from code
---

Importing from code is helpful if you’ve already built machines while working with [XState](xstate.mdx), or have created a machine using our older [Stately Viz](https://stately.ai/viz) but haven’t yet tried Stately Studio’s editor.

:::tip

Watch our [“Import from code” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DAoIFaugDLo) (2m24s).

:::

## Import state machines

Your state machine code should be formatted as a [`createMachine()` factory function](/docs/actors#createmachine) before import. The importer has basic validation in case your machine has basic errors, including reminding you if the `createMachine` definition is missing.

[Check out an importable machine code example at the end of this page](/#machine-code-example).

:::warning

**Caution**: importing code will overwrite your current or selected machine unless you create a new machine from the machines list inside a project.

:::


:::new

The Stately editor now supports importing multiple machines from code.

:::

### Create a new machine inside a project using imported code

Create a <FilePlus2 size={18} /> **New machine** from the machines list inside a project, then use the <Code size={18}/> **Import** button to import code into the new machine.

### Import code to overwrite your machine

Use **Import** button in the <Code size={18}/> **Code** panel, or **Machine** > <Import size={18}/> **Import** from the editor menu to overwrite your current machine.

## Machine code example

Below is an example of a `createMachine()` factory function which you can import as a machine without any errors:

```js
createMachine({
  id: 'Video',
  initial: 'Closed',
  description: 'Video player',
  states: {
    Closed: {
      on: {
        PLAY: {
          target: 'Opened',
        },
      },
    },
    Opened: {
      invoke: {
        src: 'startVideo',
      },
      initial: 'Playing',
      description: 'Fullscreen mode',
      states: {
        Playing: {
          on: {
            PAUSE: {
              target: 'Paused',
            },
          },
        },
        Paused: {
          on: {
            PLAY: {
              target: 'Playing',
            },
          },
        },
        Stopped: {
          type: 'final',
          after: {
            5000: {
              target: '#Video.Closed',
              actions: [],
              internal: false,
            },
          },
        },
      },
      on: {
        STOP: {
          target: '.Stopped',
        },
      },
    },
  },
  context: {},
  predictableActionArguments: true,
  preserveActionOrder: true,
});
```
