docs/invoke.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Invoke'
---

XState is based on the [actor model](actors.mdx). Invoked actors are managed by the state machine. Invoked actors are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

Coming soon… invoking an actor: `{ invoke: { src: ... } }`.

- Actors can also be invoked on the root of the machine. They last the lifetime of the machine

Coming soon… example of invoking an actor at root.

:::tip
[Read about the difference between invoking and spawning actors](actors.mdx#invoking-and-spawning-actors).
:::

## API

- `invoke: { src: ... }` - Invokes an actor.
  - `src` - The actor to invoke.
  - `id` - The ID of the actor.
  - `input` - The input to pass to the actor.
  - `systemId` - system-wide ID
  - `onDone`
  - `onSnapshot`
  - `onError`

## Source

- Represented by `src`
- Can be inline: `src: fromPromise(...)`
- Can be referenced: `src: 'fetchUser'`
- `.provide({ actors: ... })`

## Lifecycle

Invoked actors have a lifecycle that is managed by the parent machine. They are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

- Transitions that reenter the state stop invoked actors and start new invoked actors.
  - Don't want this? Set `reenter: false` or omit `reenter` altogether.

## Actor refs

Actors can be read on `state.children.<actorId>`. The returned value is an `ActorRef` object, and it has these properties:

- `id` - the ID of the actor
- `send()`
- `getSnapshot()`

## Actor snapshots

The actor snapshot is the latest emitted value from the actor. It can be read from `actorRef.getSnapshot()`.

- The snapshot is not the same as the internal state; it is what the actor chooses to share with observers.

## `onDone`

- Transitions when invoked actor is complete
- Event gets `.output` with actor's output data

## `onSnapshot`

- Transitions when invoked actor emits a new snapshot
- Event gets `data` with actor's snapshot

## `onError`

- Transitions when invoked actor throws an error
- Event gets `data` with actor's error data

## Input

- Actors can receive input. This is an event: `{ type: 'xstate.init', input: ... }`

## Kinds of actors

- [Promises](actors.mdx#frompromise)
- [Machines](machines.mdx)
- [Observables](actors.mdx#fromobservable)
- [Transition functions](actors.mdx#fromtransition)
- [Callbacks](actors.mdx#fromcallback)

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Link to relevant studio content from XState docs
Closes STA-5673

docs/invoke.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Invoke'
---

XState is based on the [actor model](actors.mdx). Invoked actors are managed by the state machine. Invoked actors are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

Coming soon… invoking an actor: `{ invoke: { src: ... } }`.

- Actors can also be invoked on the root of the machine. They last the lifetime of the machine

Coming soon… example of invoking an actor at root.

:::tip

[Read about the difference between invoking and spawning actors](actors.mdx#invoking-and-spawning-actors).

:::

:::studio

You can visualize your state machines and easily invoke actors in our drag-and-drop Stately editor. [Read more about actors in Stately’s editor](editor-actions-and-actors.mdx).

:::

## API

- `invoke: { src: ... }` - Invokes an actor.
  - `src` - The actor to invoke.
  - `id` - The ID of the actor.
  - `input` - The input to pass to the actor.
  - `systemId` - system-wide ID
  - `onDone`
  - `onSnapshot`
  - `onError`

## Source

- Represented by `src`
- Can be inline: `src: fromPromise(...)`
- Can be referenced: `src: 'fetchUser'`
- `.provide({ actors: ... })`

## Lifecycle

Invoked actors have a lifecycle that is managed by the parent machine. They are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

- Transitions that reenter the state stop invoked actors and start new invoked actors.
  - Don't want this? Set `reenter: false` or omit `reenter` altogether.

## Actor refs

Actors can be read on `state.children.<actorId>`. The returned value is an `ActorRef` object, and it has these properties:

- `id` - the ID of the actor
- `send()`
- `getSnapshot()`

## Actor snapshots

The actor snapshot is the latest emitted value from the actor. It can be read from `actorRef.getSnapshot()`.

- The snapshot is not the same as the internal state; it is what the actor chooses to share with observers.

## `onDone`

- Transitions when invoked actor is complete
- Event gets `.output` with actor's output data

## `onSnapshot`

- Transitions when invoked actor emits a new snapshot
- Event gets `data` with actor's snapshot

## `onError`

- Transitions when invoked actor throws an error
- Event gets `data` with actor's error data

## Input

- Actors can receive input. This is an event: `{ type: 'xstate.init', input: ... }`

## Kinds of actors

- [Promises](actors.mdx#frompromise)
- [Machines](machines.mdx)
- [Observables](actors.mdx#fromobservable)
- [Transition functions](actors.mdx#fromtransition)
- [Callbacks](actors.mdx#fromcallback)

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
