docs/lock-machines.mdx, before:

---
title: Lock machines
---

You can lock a machine anytime to prevent accidental edits. Locked machines have a <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** status displayed in the editor’s top bar.

Hover over the <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** text to view who locked the machine and when.

:::studio

Locking machines is a Pro feature of the Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](/studio-pro-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try the Pro plan with a 7-day free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

Locking a machine prevents you, or anyone else on your team, from the following:

- Editing the machine
- Deleting the machine
- Renaming the machine
- [Importing code](import-from-code.mdx) to replace the machine
- [Restoring a past version](versions.mdx) of the machine

If somebody else is viewing or editing the machine when it is locked, their changes will not be saved, and they will be notified that the machine is now locked.

## How to lock and unlock a machine

From the editor menu, go to **Machine** > <Unlock size={18} /> **Lock machine** / <Lock size={18} /> **Unlock machine**.

From the machine’s <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel, use the <Unlock size={18} /> Lock machine / <Lock size={18} /> Unlock machine icon button.

## Team roles and locking machines

All team members can view locked machines. Only team owners, Admins, and Editors can lock and unlock machines.

| Capability              | Owner  | Admin  | Editor | Viewer |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| View locked machine     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Lock and unlock machine | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |

Commit message:

Update docs for recent changes to UI (#309)
* Update docs for export to code/StackBlitz/CodeSandbox in Studio

Closes STA-4965, STA-4959, STA-4950, STA-5191

* Update Simulate mode docs for recent UI changes

* Document state assets

Closes STA-5664

* Update wording for admonitions on paid feature pages

Specify that free generations are available for generate flow
Closes STA-5296

* Add assets to v4 docs and sidebars

* Update projects docs for latest changes to UI

* Add info on zoom to selection to docs

* Add info about moving projects and machines to projects page

Closes STA-5321

* Update versions docs for latest changes to UI

Closes STA-5240

* Clarify roles required to move machines

* Simplify import from code page and remove refs to Machines list title

* Fix Lucide fork icon

* Fix URLs

* Update docs/discover.mdx

Co-authored-by: David Khourshid <davidkpiano@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: David Khourshid <davidkpiano@gmail.com>

docs/lock-machines.mdx, after:

---
title: Lock machines
---

You can lock a machine anytime to prevent accidental edits. Locked machines have a <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** status displayed in the editor’s top bar.

Hover over the <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** text to view who locked the machine and when.

:::studio

Locking machines is a paid feature of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

Locking a machine prevents you, or anyone else on your team, from the following:

- Editing the machine
- Deleting the machine
- Renaming the machine
- [Importing code](import-from-code.mdx) to replace the machine
- [Restoring a past version](versions.mdx) of the machine

If somebody else is viewing or editing the machine when it is locked, their changes will not be saved, and they will be notified that the machine is now locked.

## How to lock and unlock a machine

From the editor menu, go to **Machine** > <Unlock size={18} /> **Lock machine** / <Lock size={18} /> **Unlock machine**.

From the machine’s <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel, use the <Unlock size={18} /> Lock machine / <Lock size={18} /> Unlock machine icon button.

## Team roles and locking machines

All team members can view locked machines. Only team owners, Admins, and Editors can lock and unlock machines.

| Capability              | Owner  | Admin  | Editor | Viewer |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| View locked machine     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Lock and unlock machine | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
