docs/machines.mdx, before:

---
title: 'State machines'
---

A [state machine](state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx) is a model that describes the behavior of something, for example an [actor](actors.mdx). [Finite state](finite-states.mdx) machines describe how the state of an actor transitions to another state when an [event](transitions.mdx) occurs.

:::tip

Read our [introduction to state machines and statecharts](state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx) if you haven’t already!

:::

## Benefits of state machines

State machines help build reliable and robust software. [Read more about the benefits of state machines](state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx#benefits-of-state-machines).

## Creating a state machine

In [XState](xstate.mdx), a state machine (referred to as a “machine”) is created using the `createMachine(config)` function:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',
  initial: 'question',
  states: {
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          target: 'thanks',
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

In this example, the machine has two states: `question` and `thanks`. The `question` state has a transition to the `thanks` state when the `feedback.good` event is sent to the machine:

```ts
const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.value);
});

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'question'

feedbackActor.send({ type: 'feedback.good' });
// logs 'thanks'
```

## Creating actors from machines

A machine contains the logic of an actor. An [actor](actors.mdx) is a running instance of the machine; in other words, it is the entity whose logic is described by the machine. Multiple actors can be created from the same machine, and each of those actors will exhibit the same behavior (reaction to received events), but they will be independent of each other and have their own states.

To create an actor, use the `createActor(machine)` function:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.value);
});

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'question'
```

You can also create an actor [from other types of logic](/docs/actors/#actor-logic), such as [functions](/docs/actors/#fromtransition), [promises](/docs/actors/#frompromise), and [observables](/docs/actors/#fromobservable).

## Providing implementations

Machine implementations are the language-specific code that is executed but is not directly related to the state machine’s logic (states and transitions). This includes:

- [Actions](actions.mdx), which are fire-and-forget side-effects.
- [Actors](actors.mdx), which are entities that can communicate with the machine actor.
- [Guards](guards.mdx), which are conditions that determine whether a transition should be taken.
- [Delays](delayed-transitions.mdx), which specify the time before a delayed transition is taken or a delayed event is sent.

The default implementations can be provided in a `setup({...})` function when creating a machine, and then you can reference those implementations using JSON-serializable strings and/or objects, such as `{ type: 'doSomething' }`. 

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  // Default implementations
  actions: {
    doSomething: () => {
      console.log('Doing something!');
    },
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  delays: {
    /* ... */
  },
}).createMachine({
  entry: { type: 'doSomething' },
  // ... rest of machine config
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine)

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'Doing something!'
```

You can override default implementations by _providing_ implementations via `machine.provide(...)`. This function will create a new machine with the same config, but with the provided implementations:

```ts
const customFeedbackMachine = feedbackMachine.provide({
  actions: {
    doSomething: () => {
      console.log('Doing something else!');
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(customFeedbackMachine)

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'Doing something else!'
```

## Specifying types

You can specify TypeScript types inside the machine config using the `.types` property:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    context: { feedback: string };
    events: { type: 'feedback.good' } | { type: 'feedback.bad' };
    actions: { type: 'logTelemetry' };
  },
});
```

These types will be inferred throughout the machine config and in the created machine and actor so that methods such as `machine.transition(...)` and `actor.send(...)` will be type-safe.

If you are using the `setup(...)` function, you should provide the types in the `.types` property inside the setup function:

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {} as {
    context: { feedback: string };
    events: { type: 'feedback.good' } | { type: 'feedback.bad' };
  },
  actions: {
    logTelemetry: () => {
      // TODO: implement
    }
  }
}).createMachine({
  // ...
});
```

## Typegen

[Typegen](/docs/developer-tools#xstate-typegen-files) does not yet support XState v5. However, with the `setup(...)` function and/or the `.types` property explained above, you can provide strong typing for most (if not all) of your machine.

## API

Coming soon…

## TypeScript

The best way to provide strong typing for your machine is to use the `setup(...)` function and/or the `.types` property.

```ts
import { setup, fromPromise } from 'xstate';

const someAction = () => {/* ... */};

const someGuard = ({ context }) => context.count <= 10;

const someActor = fromPromise(async () => {
  // ...
  return 42;
});

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {
    context: {} as { count: number };
    events: {} as { type: 'increment' } | { type: 'decrement' };
  },
  actions: {
    someAction
  },
  guards: {
    someGuard
  },
  actors: {
    someActor
  }
}).createMachine({
  initial: 'counting',
  states: {
    counting: {
      entry: { type: 'someAction' }, // strongly-typed
      invoke: {
        src: 'someActor', // strongly-typed
        onDone: {
          actions: ({ event }) => {
            event.output; // strongly-typed as number
          }
        }
      },
      on: {
        increment: {
          guard: { type: 'someGuard' }, // strongly-typed
          actions: assign({
            count: ({ context }) => context.count + 1
          })
        }
      },
    }
  }
});
```

## Machine cheatsheet

Use our XState machine cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

### Create a machine

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    start: {},
    // ...
  },
});
```

### Setup a machine with implementations

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const machine = setup({
  actions: {
    someAction: () => {/* ... */}
  },
  guards: {
    someGuard: ({ context }) => context.count <= 10
  },
  actors: {
    someActor: fromPromise(async () => {/* ... */})
  },
  delays: {
    someDelay: () => 1000
  }
}).createMachine({
  // ... Rest of machine config
})
```

### Provide implementations

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { someMachine } from './someMachine'

const machineWithImpls = someMachine.provide({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  delays: {
    /* ... */
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Link to TypeScript page in relevant locations with TS admonition

docs/machines.mdx, after:

---
title: 'State machines'
---

A [state machine](state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx) is a model that describes the behavior of something, for example an [actor](actors.mdx). [Finite state](finite-states.mdx) machines describe how the state of an actor transitions to another state when an [event](transitions.mdx) occurs.

:::tip

Read our [introduction to state machines and statecharts](state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx) if you haven’t already!

:::

## Benefits of state machines

State machines help build reliable and robust software. [Read more about the benefits of state machines](state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx#benefits-of-state-machines).

## Creating a state machine

In [XState](xstate.mdx), a state machine (referred to as a “machine”) is created using the `createMachine(config)` function:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',
  initial: 'question',
  states: {
    question: {
      on: {
        'feedback.good': {
          target: 'thanks',
        },
      },
    },
    thanks: {
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

In this example, the machine has two states: `question` and `thanks`. The `question` state has a transition to the `thanks` state when the `feedback.good` event is sent to the machine:

```ts
const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.value);
});

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'question'

feedbackActor.send({ type: 'feedback.good' });
// logs 'thanks'
```

## Creating actors from machines

A machine contains the logic of an actor. An [actor](actors.mdx) is a running instance of the machine; in other words, it is the entity whose logic is described by the machine. Multiple actors can be created from the same machine, and each of those actors will exhibit the same behavior (reaction to received events), but they will be independent of each other and have their own states.

To create an actor, use the `createActor(machine)` function:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine);

feedbackActor.subscribe((state) => {
  console.log(state.value);
});

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'question'
```

You can also create an actor [from other types of logic](/docs/actors/#actor-logic), such as [functions](/docs/actors/#fromtransition), [promises](/docs/actors/#frompromise), and [observables](/docs/actors/#fromobservable).

## Providing implementations

Machine implementations are the language-specific code that is executed but is not directly related to the state machine’s logic (states and transitions). This includes:

- [Actions](actions.mdx), which are fire-and-forget side-effects.
- [Actors](actors.mdx), which are entities that can communicate with the machine actor.
- [Guards](guards.mdx), which are conditions that determine whether a transition should be taken.
- [Delays](delayed-transitions.mdx), which specify the time before a delayed transition is taken or a delayed event is sent.

The default implementations can be provided in a `setup({...})` function when creating a machine, and then you can reference those implementations using JSON-serializable strings and/or objects, such as `{ type: 'doSomething' }`. 

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  // Default implementations
  actions: {
    doSomething: () => {
      console.log('Doing something!');
    },
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  delays: {
    /* ... */
  },
}).createMachine({
  entry: { type: 'doSomething' },
  // ... rest of machine config
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine)

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'Doing something!'
```

You can override default implementations by _providing_ implementations via `machine.provide(...)`. This function will create a new machine with the same config, but with the provided implementations:

```ts
const customFeedbackMachine = feedbackMachine.provide({
  actions: {
    doSomething: () => {
      console.log('Doing something else!');
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(customFeedbackMachine)

feedbackActor.start();
// logs 'Doing something else!'
```

## Specifying types

You can specify TypeScript types inside the machine config using the `.types` property:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    context: { feedback: string };
    events: { type: 'feedback.good' } | { type: 'feedback.bad' };
    actions: { type: 'logTelemetry' };
  },
});
```

These types will be inferred throughout the machine config and in the created machine and actor so that methods such as `machine.transition(...)` and `actor.send(...)` will be type-safe.

If you are using the `setup(...)` function, you should provide the types in the `.types` property inside the setup function:

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {} as {
    context: { feedback: string };
    events: { type: 'feedback.good' } | { type: 'feedback.bad' };
  },
  actions: {
    logTelemetry: () => {
      // TODO: implement
    }
  }
}).createMachine({
  // ...
});
```

## Typegen

[Typegen](/docs/developer-tools#xstate-typegen-files) does not yet support XState v5. However, with the `setup(...)` function and/or the `.types` property explained above, you can provide strong typing for most (if not all) of your machine.

## API

Coming soon…

## TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.** 

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

The best way to provide strong typing for your machine is to use the `setup(...)` function and/or the `.types` property.

```ts
import { setup, fromPromise } from 'xstate';

const someAction = () => {/* ... */};

const someGuard = ({ context }) => context.count <= 10;

const someActor = fromPromise(async () => {
  // ...
  return 42;
});

const feedbackMachine = setup({
  types: {
    context: {} as { count: number };
    events: {} as { type: 'increment' } | { type: 'decrement' };
  },
  actions: {
    someAction
  },
  guards: {
    someGuard
  },
  actors: {
    someActor
  }
}).createMachine({
  initial: 'counting',
  states: {
    counting: {
      entry: { type: 'someAction' }, // strongly-typed
      invoke: {
        src: 'someActor', // strongly-typed
        onDone: {
          actions: ({ event }) => {
            event.output; // strongly-typed as number
          }
        }
      },
      on: {
        increment: {
          guard: { type: 'someGuard' }, // strongly-typed
          actions: assign({
            count: ({ context }) => context.count + 1
          })
        }
      },
    }
  }
});
```

## Machine cheatsheet

Use our XState machine cheatsheet below to get started quickly.

### Create a machine

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  initial: 'start',
  states: {
    start: {},
    // ...
  },
});
```

### Setup a machine with implementations

```ts
import { setup } from 'xstate';

const machine = setup({
  actions: {
    someAction: () => {/* ... */}
  },
  guards: {
    someGuard: ({ context }) => context.count <= 10
  },
  actors: {
    someActor: fromPromise(async () => {/* ... */})
  },
  delays: {
    someDelay: () => 1000
  }
}).createMachine({
  // ... Rest of machine config
})
```

### Provide implementations

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';
import { someMachine } from './someMachine'

const machineWithImpls = someMachine.provide({
  actions: {
    /* ... */
  },
  actors: {
    /* ... */
  },
  guards: {
    /* ... */
  },
  delays: {
    /* ... */
  },
});
```
