docs/parallel-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Parallel states
---

In statecharts, a parallel state is a state that has multiple child states (also known as **regions**) that are all active at the same time. This is different from a parent state, where only _one_ child state is active at a time.

Parallel states have the following characteristics:

- Entering a parallel state will also simultaneously enter all of its regions.
- Exiting a parallel state will also simultaneously exit all of its regions.
- An event received in a parallel state is simultaneously received & handled by all of its regions.

Here is a music player example with a parallel state consisting of two regions, one for handling playing the track and one for handling the volume:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const playerMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'player',
  // highlight-next-line
  type: 'parallel',
  states: {
    track: {
      initial: 'paused',
      states: {
        paused: {
          on: { PLAY: 'playing' },
        },
        playing: {
          on: { STOP: 'paused' },
        },
      },
    },
    volume: {
      initial: 'normal',
      states: {
        normal: {
          on: { MUTE: 'muted' },
        },
        muted: {
          on: { UNMUTE: 'normal' },
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=733de338-26cb-40a5-a0b5-b76bfc0405c3"
/>

## Parallel state value

The [state value](states.mdx#state-value) of a parallel state is an object with the state values of each of its regions.

```ts
const playerActor = createActor(playerMachine);
playerActor.start();

console.log(playerActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs the object:
// {
//   track: 'paused',
//   volume: 'normal'
// }
```

## onDone transition

_Coming soon_

## Modeling

_Coming soon_

- Avoid transitions between regions
- Used for separation of concerns that _may_ affect each other (i.e. synchronization)
- If completely separate, prefer `invoke` instead

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Link to relevant studio content from XState docs
Closes STA-5673

docs/parallel-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Parallel states
---

In statecharts, a parallel state is a state that has multiple child states (also known as **regions**) that are all active at the same time. This is different from a parent state, where only _one_ child state is active at a time.

Parallel states have the following characteristics:

- Entering a parallel state will also simultaneously enter all of its regions.
- Exiting a parallel state will also simultaneously exit all of its regions.
- An event received in a parallel state is simultaneously received & handled by all of its regions.

:::studio

You can easily visualize and simulate parallel states in Stately’s editor. [Read more about parallel states in Stately’s editor](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions/#parallel-states).

:::

Here is a music player example with a parallel state consisting of two regions, one for handling playing the track and one for handling the volume:

```ts
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

const playerMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'player',
  // highlight-next-line
  type: 'parallel',
  states: {
    track: {
      initial: 'paused',
      states: {
        paused: {
          on: { PLAY: 'playing' },
        },
        playing: {
          on: { STOP: 'paused' },
        },
      },
    },
    volume: {
      initial: 'normal',
      states: {
        normal: {
          on: { MUTE: 'muted' },
        },
        muted: {
          on: { UNMUTE: 'normal' },
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=733de338-26cb-40a5-a0b5-b76bfc0405c3"
/>

## Parallel state value

The [state value](states.mdx#state-value) of a parallel state is an object with the state values of each of its regions.

```ts
const playerActor = createActor(playerMachine);
playerActor.start();

console.log(playerActor.getSnapshot().value);
// logs the object:
// {
//   track: 'paused',
//   volume: 'normal'
// }
```

## onDone transition

_Coming soon_

## Modeling

_Coming soon_

- Avoid transitions between regions
- Used for separation of concerns that _may_ affect each other (i.e. synchronization)
- If completely separate, prefer `invoke` instead

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
