docs/parent-states.mdx, before:

---
title: Parent states
---

States can contain more states, also known as **child states**. These child states are only active when the parent state is active.

Child states are nested inside their parent states. Parent states are also known as **compound states**.

:::tip

Watch our [“Parent and child states” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUhEdeIf_mQ&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=5) (1m6s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=9ba5377c-aab3-4465-8909-4eea499622fa"
/>

In the video player above, the *Opened* state is a parent state to the *Playing*, *Paused*, and *Stopped* states. These states, their transitions, and their events are nested inside the *Opened* state.

## Root state

The state machine itself is a parent state! It’s the root state, and it’s always active.

It's normal to have a state machine that has no other states. This is useful for modeling a simple state machine that only handles events via transitions:

Example of a simple counting machine with increment, decrement, reset, and no states:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countingMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'counting',
  initial: 'active',
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({ count: ({ context }) => context.count + 1 }),
    },
    decrement: {
      actions: assign({ count: ({ context }) => context.count - 1 }),
    },
    reset: {
      actions: assign({ count: 0 }),
    },
  },
  // No child states!
});
```

## Initial state

The initial state of a parent state is the state that is entered when the parent state is entered. Parent states _must_ have an initial states.

You specify the initial state via the `initial` property of the parent state, which is the key of the initial state in the `states` object:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  initial: 'question',
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    question: {
      // ...
    },
    // highlight-end
    form: {
      // ...
    },
    thanks: {
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

- Even if the parent state is never directly targeted and its child states are instead targeted, specifying the initial state in the `.initial` property is required. In this case, the `.initial` property can be any of the child states.

## Transitions on parent states

A transition that targets a parent state will enter the parent state and its initial state. If that initial state is a parent state, then that state's initial state will be entered, and so on.

When an event is received, transitions on the deepest child nodes are checked first to see if any of them are enabled by that event. If no transitions are enabled, then transitions on the parent state are checked. If no transitions on the parent state are enabled, then transitions on the parent's parent state is checked, and so on.

Transitions on a parent state can target child (or descendent) states. This is useful for modeling a transition that should go to a specific child state regardless of which child state is currently active.

Transitions on a child state can target the parent state, though this is not common. A transition from a child state to its parent (or ancestor) state will also enter the parent state's initial state.

## Modeling

_Coming soon_

- Start with a flat structure; don't create parent states too early
- If many states have common outgoing transitions, that's a good sign for putting them in a parent state
- Parent states also represent sub-processes. Very useful when

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

```ts
// The machine is the root-level parent state
const machine = createMachine({
  // Initial child state of the machine
  initial: 'parent',
  states: {
    parent: {
      // Initial child state of the parent state
      initial: 'child1',
      states: {
        child1: {
          on: {
            // Targeting a sibling
            toSibling: {
              target: 'child2',
            },
          },
        },
        child2: {
          initial: 'grandchild1',
          states: {
            grandchild1: {},
            grandchild2: {},
          },
        },
      },
      on: {
        // Targeting a child
        toChild: {
          target: '.child1',
        },
        // Targeting a grandchild
        toGrandchild: {
          target: '.child2.grandchild2',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Link to relevant studio content from XState docs
Closes STA-5673

docs/parent-states.mdx, after:

---
title: Parent states
---

States can contain more states, also known as **child states**. These child states are only active when the parent state is active.

Child states are nested inside their parent states. Parent states are also known as **compound states**.

:::studio

You can easily visualize and simulate parent and child states in Stately’s editor. [Read more about parent states in Stately’s editor](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions/#parent-and-child-states).

:::

:::tip

Watch our [“Parent and child states” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUhEdeIf_mQ&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=5) (1m6s).

:::

<EmbedMachine
  name="Video player"
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=9ba5377c-aab3-4465-8909-4eea499622fa"
/>

In the video player above, the *Opened* state is a parent state to the *Playing*, *Paused*, and *Stopped* states. These states, their transitions, and their events are nested inside the *Opened* state.

## Root state

The state machine itself is a parent state! It’s the root state, and it’s always active.

It's normal to have a state machine that has no other states. This is useful for modeling a simple state machine that only handles events via transitions:

Example of a simple counting machine with increment, decrement, reset, and no states:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const countingMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'counting',
  initial: 'active',
  on: {
    increment: {
      actions: assign({ count: ({ context }) => context.count + 1 }),
    },
    decrement: {
      actions: assign({ count: ({ context }) => context.count - 1 }),
    },
    reset: {
      actions: assign({ count: 0 }),
    },
  },
  // No child states!
});
```

## Initial state

The initial state of a parent state is the state that is entered when the parent state is entered. Parent states _must_ have an initial states.

You specify the initial state via the `initial` property of the parent state, which is the key of the initial state in the `states` object:

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  initial: 'question',
  states: {
    // highlight-start
    question: {
      // ...
    },
    // highlight-end
    form: {
      // ...
    },
    thanks: {
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

- Even if the parent state is never directly targeted and its child states are instead targeted, specifying the initial state in the `.initial` property is required. In this case, the `.initial` property can be any of the child states.

## Transitions on parent states

A transition that targets a parent state will enter the parent state and its initial state. If that initial state is a parent state, then that state's initial state will be entered, and so on.

When an event is received, transitions on the deepest child nodes are checked first to see if any of them are enabled by that event. If no transitions are enabled, then transitions on the parent state are checked. If no transitions on the parent state are enabled, then transitions on the parent's parent state is checked, and so on.

Transitions on a parent state can target child (or descendent) states. This is useful for modeling a transition that should go to a specific child state regardless of which child state is currently active.

Transitions on a child state can target the parent state, though this is not common. A transition from a child state to its parent (or ancestor) state will also enter the parent state's initial state.

## Modeling

_Coming soon_

- Start with a flat structure; don't create parent states too early
- If many states have common outgoing transitions, that's a good sign for putting them in a parent state
- Parent states also represent sub-processes. Very useful when

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

```ts
// The machine is the root-level parent state
const machine = createMachine({
  // Initial child state of the machine
  initial: 'parent',
  states: {
    parent: {
      // Initial child state of the parent state
      initial: 'child1',
      states: {
        child1: {
          on: {
            // Targeting a sibling
            toSibling: {
              target: 'child2',
            },
          },
        },
        child2: {
          initial: 'grandchild1',
          states: {
            grandchild1: {},
            grandchild2: {},
          },
        },
      },
      on: {
        // Targeting a child
        toChild: {
          target: '.child1',
        },
        // Targeting a grandchild
        toGrandchild: {
          target: '.child2.grandchild2',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```
