docs/projects.mdx, before:

---
title: Projects
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

A project is a collection of machines that helps you organize your personal machines and collaborate with others on your application logic.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio My Projects page showing three pages of projects along with each project’s name, number of machines, and whether the project is public, private, or unlisted."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects/my-projects.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects/my-projects-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

You can access your projects from **My Projects** at the left of the Studio’s top bar when you’re signed into the Stately Studio. **My Projects** lists your personal projects and is one of the locations where you can create new projects.

When you select a project, the first machine in the project will open in the Studio Editor. The other machines in your project are accessible from the **Machines** list in the left drawer menu.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio Editor showing the Machines list in the left drawer for the Stately Studio Tutorials project. The selected machine is called ‘Parent states.’"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects/machines-list.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects/machines-list-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

### Shared projects

Shared projects are available to [Teams](/teams). Team projects are listed inside their Team in the Stately Studio workspace.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio Projects page for the Voyager team, showing a list of four projects, one with public machines, two with private machines, and one with unlisted machines."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

:::studio

Teams and shared projects are Pro features of the Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](https://stately.ai/pricing) or [upgrade to the Pro plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

### Create a new project

You can create a new project when you first save a machine or from the **Create project** button in [**My Projects**](#my-projects). You must be signed in to the Stately Studio to access **My Projects** and shared team projects, or to create new projects.

#### Create a new project from **My Projects**

1. Open **My Projects** from the link at the left of the Studio’s top bar.
2. Use the **Create project** button.
3. Name the project. The description and keyword fields are optional.
4. Use the **Submit** button to create the new project.

#### Create a new project from the Studio Editor

The **Save** button will save your machine or prompt you to sign into Stately Studio before saving. Your project will have the same name as your current machine name.

1. From the Studio Editor, use the **Save** button to save your current machine in a project.
2. Choose **New Project** from the dropdown menu in the Save machine dialog.
3. Use **Save** to save your machine and create your new project.

#### Create a shared team project

Only team members with the **Owner**, **Admin**, or **Editor** roles can create team projects.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of the Studio workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Projects** tab on the team page.
3. Use the **Create project** button.
3. Name the project. The description and keyword fields are optional.
4. Use the **Submit** button to create the new project.

### Move a project between teams

You can move projects between your teams if you have an [**Owner**](teams#owner-role) role on both teams.

1. Use the **Share** button in the Studio’s top bar to open the Share dialog.
2. Choose the destination team from the dropdown menu in the Move project section.
3. Confirm that you want to move the project from the project move warning dialog using the **Move to *project name*** button.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio Editor page showing the Share modal with the options for changing project visibility and moving projects to another team."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects/move-projects.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects/move-projects-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

<!-- TODO: ### How to move a machine between projects -->

### Change a project’s visibility

A project can be **public**, **unlisted**, or **private**. If the project is a shared team project, only team members with the **Owner** or **Admin** roles can change its visibility.

- Public projects are visible to everyone. They are discoverable on the [Discover](/discover) page and listed on your profile page.
- Unlisted projects are visible to everyone with the project’s URL but are not findable on the Discover page or listed on your profile page.
- Private projects are only visible to you and the team that owns the project.

1. Use the **Share** button in the Studio’s top bar to open the Share dialog.
2. Toggle the project’s visibility between **public**, **unlisted**, or **private** from the dropdown menu in the Share dialog.

### Favorite a project

You can favorite your own projects and other people’s projects. Favoriting a project gives you easy access to these projects in the future, as your **Favorites** are listed in the left sidebar of the Studio workspace. You might want to favorite projects you find inspiring or educational so that you can refer back to them later.

You can favorite a project from **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects.

1. Choose **Add to favorites** from the **...** triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.
2. Find your **Favorites** in the left sidebar of the Studio workspace.

#### Remove a project from your favorites

You can remove a project from your favorites from **Favorites**, **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects.

1. Choose **Remove from favorites** from the **...** triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.
2. The project will no longer be listed under **Favorites**.

Commit message:

Add docs on how to rename a project

docs/projects.mdx, after:

---
title: Projects
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

A project is a collection of machines that helps you organize your personal machines and collaborate with others on your application logic.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio My Projects page showing three pages of projects along with each project’s name, number of machines, and whether the project is public, private, or unlisted."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects/my-projects.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects/my-projects-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

You can access your projects from **My Projects** at the left of the Studio’s top bar when you’re signed in to the Stately Studio. **My Projects** lists your personal projects and is one of the locations where you can create new projects.

When you select a project, the first machine in the project will open in the Studio Editor. The other machines in your project are accessible from the **Machines** list in the left drawer menu.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio Editor showing the Machines list in the left drawer for the Stately Studio Tutorials project. The selected machine is called ‘Parent states.’"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects/machines-list.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects/machines-list-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

### Shared projects

Shared projects are available to [Teams](/teams). Team projects are listed inside their Team in the Stately Studio workspace.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio Projects page for the Voyager team, showing a list of four projects, one with public machines, two with private machines, and one with unlisted machines."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

:::studio

Teams and shared projects are Pro features of the Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](https://stately.ai/pricing) or [upgrade to the Pro plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

### Create a new project

You can create a new project when you first save a machine or from the **Create project** button in [**My Projects**](#my-projects). You must be signed in to the Stately Studio to access **My Projects** and shared team projects, or to create new projects.

#### Create a new project from **My Projects**

1. Open **My Projects** from the link at the left of the Studio’s top bar.
2. Use the **Create project** button.
3. Name the project. The description and keyword fields are optional.
4. Use the **Submit** button to create the new project.

#### Create a new project from the Studio Editor

The **Save** button will save your machine or prompt you to sign into Stately Studio before saving. Your project will have the same name as your current machine name.

1. From the Studio Editor, use the **Save** button to save your current machine in a project.
2. Choose **New Project** from the dropdown menu in the Save machine dialog.
3. Use **Save** to save your machine and create your new project.

#### Create a shared team project

Only team members with the **Owner**, **Admin**, or **Editor** roles can create team projects.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of the Studio workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Projects** tab on the team page.
3. Use the **Create project** button.
3. Name the project. The description and keyword fields are optional.
4. Use the **Submit** button to create the new project.

### Move a project between teams

You can move projects between your teams if you have an [**Owner**](teams#owner-role) role on both teams.

1. Use the **Share** button in the Studio’s top bar to open the Share dialog.
2. Choose the destination team from the dropdown menu in the Move project section.
3. Confirm that you want to move the project from the project move warning dialog using the **Move to *project name*** button.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Stately Studio Editor page showing the Share modal with the options for changing project visibility and moving projects to another team."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/projects/move-projects.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/projects/move-projects-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

<!-- TODO: ### How to move a machine between projects -->

### Change a project’s name, description, and keywords

A [project owner or admin](/projects#team-roles) can change a project’s name, description, and keywords anytime.

1. Find the project in My Projects or under the team’s Projects.
2. Choose **Settings** from the **...** triple dot contextual menu alongside the project name.
3. Make your changes and use the **Submit** button to save those changes.

### Change a project’s visibility

A project can be **public**, **unlisted**, or **private**. If the project is a shared team project, only team members with the **Owner** or **Admin** roles can change its visibility.

- Public projects are visible to everyone. They are discoverable on the [Discover](/discover) page and listed on your profile page.
- Unlisted projects are visible to everyone with the project’s URL but are not findable on the Discover page or listed on your profile page.
- Private projects are only visible to you and the team that owns the project.

1. Use the **Share** button in the Studio’s top bar to open the Share dialog.
2. Toggle the project’s visibility between **public**, **unlisted**, or **private** from the dropdown menu in the Share dialog.

### Favorite a project

You can favorite your own projects and other people’s projects. Favoriting a project gives you easy access to these projects in the future, as your **Favorites** are listed in the left sidebar of the Studio workspace. You might want to favorite projects you find inspiring or educational so that you can refer back to them later.

You can favorite a project from **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects.

1. Choose **Add to favorites** from the **...** triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.
2. Find your **Favorites** in the left sidebar of the Studio workspace.

#### Remove a project from your favorites

You can remove a project from your favorites from **Favorites**, **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects.

1. Choose **Remove from favorites** from the **...** triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.
2. The project will no longer be listed under **Favorites**.
