docs/sign-up.mdx, before:

---
title: Sign up for the Stately Studio
---

# Sign up

You can sign up for a Stately Studio account from the [**Sign in page**](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or the **Sign in** button in [the Editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Sign up using your email address and password, or sign in using your GitHub, Google, or Twitter account credentials. 

### Using email

You can now sign up for a Stately Studio account with an email address and password. 

#### Forgotten password

If you forget, or want to change your password, use the Forgot password link on the [sign in page](https://stately.ai/registry/login).

### Using social sign in

You can also [sign in to the Stately Studio using your GitHub, Google, or Twitter account credentials](https://stately.ai/registry/login). As you have already signed up to your platform of choice, you can skip the sign up with Stately Studio and immediately sign in.

When you sign in with GitHub, Google, or Twitter, we will send emails with information about your account, as well as team and project invitations, to the email address you used to sign up for that platform.

Commit message:

Add page with upgrade info and update sign up page

docs/sign-up.mdx, after:

---
title: Sign up for the Stately Studio
---

# Sign up

You can sign up for a Stately Studio account from the [**Sign in page**](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or the **Sign in** button in [the Editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Sign up using your email address and password, or sign in using your GitHub, Google, or Twitter account credentials. 

:::studio

We offer a **30 day free trial** on the [Stately Studio Pro account](/studio-pro-plan) so you can explore how our Pro features work for you and your team. You can [upgrade](/upgrade) when you’re signed into the Stately Studio.

:::

### Using email

You can now sign up for a Stately Studio account with an email address and password. 

#### Forgotten password

If you forget, or want to change your password, use the Forgot password link on the [sign in page](https://stately.ai/registry/login).

### Using social sign in

You can also [sign in to the Stately Studio using your GitHub, Google, or Twitter account credentials](https://stately.ai/registry/login). As you have already signed up to your platform of choice, you can skip the sign up with Stately Studio and immediately sign in.

When you sign in with GitHub, Google, or Twitter, we will send emails with information about your account, as well as team and project invitations, to the email address you used to sign up for that platform.
