docs/spawn.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Spawn'
---

XState is based on the [actor model](actors.mdx). Spawned actors are managed by the state machine.

Coming soon… example.

:::tip
[Read about the difference between spawning and invoking actors](actors.mdx#invoking-and-spawning-actors).
:::

## API

```ts
actions: assign({
  ref: ({ spawn }) => spawn(fromPromise(...), {
    id: 'some-id',
  })
})
```

- `spawn(actorBehavior, options?)`
  - `actorBehavior` - The behavior of the actor to spawn. This can be a function, promise, observable, or callback.
  - `options` - Options for spawning the actor.
    - `id` - The ID of the actor. This is used to reference the actor in the state machine.
    - `input`

## Source

- Inline: `spawn(fromPromise(...))`
- Referenced: `spawn('getUser')`
  - `.provide({ actors })`

## Lifecycle

- Created & started when spawned
- Stopped when the machine is stopped
- Can be manually stopped

## Stopping an actor

- `actions: stop('some-id')`

- Note this does not clear it from the `context`

## TypeScript

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Add typescript page (#323)
* Fix missing bracket in code example

* Fix typo

* Add TypeScript page

* Link to TypeScript page in relevant locations with TS admonition

docs/spawn.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Spawn'
---

XState is based on the [actor model](actors.mdx). Spawned actors are managed by the state machine.

Coming soon… example.

:::tip
[Read about the difference between spawning and invoking actors](actors.mdx#invoking-and-spawning-actors).
:::

## API

```ts
actions: assign({
  ref: ({ spawn }) => spawn(fromPromise(...), {
    id: 'some-id',
  })
})
```

- `spawn(actorBehavior, options?)`
  - `actorBehavior` - The behavior of the actor to spawn. This can be a function, promise, observable, or callback.
  - `options` - Options for spawning the actor.
    - `id` - The ID of the actor. This is used to reference the actor in the state machine.
    - `input`

## Source

- Inline: `spawn(fromPromise(...))`
- Referenced: `spawn('getUser')`
  - `.provide({ actors })`

## Lifecycle

- Created & started when spawned
- Stopped when the machine is stopped
- Can be manually stopped

## Stopping an actor

- `actions: stop('some-id')`

- Note this does not clear it from the `context`

## TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.** 

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

_Coming soon_

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
