docs/state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx, before:

---
title: What are state machines and statecharts?
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

State machines help us model how a process goes from state to state when an event occurs.

State machines are useful in software development because they help us capture all the states, events and transitions between them. Using state machines makes it easier to find impossible states and spot undesirable transitions.

State machines model your application logic. Below is the logic for a video player. When the video is Played, it is opened into fullscreen mode. When the video is stopped, it closes out of fullscreen mode. When the video player is in fullscreen mode, it can be _Playing_ or _Paused_.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/what-is-a-state-machine.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/what-is-a-state-machine-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the video player machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=dbcfca1c-075d-4cd6-a865-efcbd7be1544).

## What is a statechart?

Statecharts are fancy state machines used to model more complex logic.

Statecharts are a visual extension to state machines that use boxes and arrows, much like flowcharts and sequence diagrams. Statecharts add extra features not available in ordinary state machines, including  [hierarchy](/states/parent-states), [concurrency](/states/parallel-states) and [communication](/actions-and-actors/actors).

When you make a state machine in the [Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/editor), it’s also a statechart!

## States

A state describes the machine’s status or mode, which could be as simple as *Asleep* and *Awake*. A state machine can only be in one state at a time.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake-states.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake-states-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog states machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=469f2d59-551f-43cb-bfc0-e6f3ea0f9d87).

A dog is always **asleep** or **awake**. The dog can’t be asleep and awake at the same time, and it’s impossible for the dog to be neither asleep nor awake. There are only these two states, a precisely limited, _finite_ number of states.


:::studio 

### States in the Stately Studio

The rounded rectangle boxes are states. [Read how to create states in the Stately Studio](/states/intro).

:::

## Transitions and events

How the dog goes between **asleep** and **awake** is through **transitions**. Events cause transitions; when an event happens, the machine transitions to the next state. The dog goes between **asleep** and **awake** through the **wake up** and **fall asleep** events.

Transitions are “deterministic”; each combination of state and event always points to the same next state. Dogs never **wake up** to become **asleep** or **fall asleep** to become **awake**.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog states machine with events and transitions in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=e48e774e-c31f-4e51-a934-6b795c12b2b9).

With its two finite states and transitions, this tiny dog process is a _Finite State Machine._ A state machine is used to describe the behavior of something. The machine describes the thing’s states and the transitions between those states. It’s a Finite State Machine because it has a finite number of states. (Sometimes abbreviated to FSM by folks who love jargon).

:::studio 

### Events and transitions in the Stately Studio

In the Stately Studio, the arrows are transitions, and the rounded rectangles on the arrow’s lines are events. Each transition has a **source** state which comes before the transition, and a **target** state, which comes after the transition. The transition’s arrow starts from the source state and points to the target state. [Read how to create events and transitions in the Stately Studio](/transitions-and-events/intro).

:::

## Initial state

When a state machine starts, it enters the **initial state** first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state; if there were multiple initial states, the machine wouldn’t know where to start!

In a statechart describing the process of walking the dog, the initial state would be **waiting** to walk:

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/waiting.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/waiting-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog waiting machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=65cf2bcb-658d-40dc-bb26-80f26c159256).

:::studio 

### Initial states in the Stately Studio

The filled circle with an arrow icon represents the initial state. [Read how to create initial states in the Stately Studio](/states/initial-states).

:::

## Final state

Most processes with states will have a _final state_, the last state when the process is finished. The final state is represented by a double border on the state’s rounded rectangle box.

In the dog walking statechart, the final state would be **walk complete**.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Dog walking statechart showing waiting state transitioning through the leave home event to the on a walk state, then transitioning through the arrive home event to the final state of walk complete."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk-simple.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk-simple-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog walk machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=988d8d05-86ba-422a-8a28-d13cbf54d481).

## Parent states

A parent state is a state that can contain more states, also known as child states. These child states can only happen when the parent state is happening. Inside the **on a walk** state, there could be the child states of **walking** and **running**.

A parent state is symbolised by a labelled rectangle box that acts as a container for its child states.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog walk machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=988d8d05-86ba-422a-8a28-d13cbf54d481).

A parent state should also specify which child state is the initial state. In the **on a walk** parent state, the initial state is **walking**.

Parent and child states are one of the features that make statecharts capable of handling more complexity than an everyday state machine.

## Atomic states

An atomic state is a state that doesn’t have any child states. **Waiting**, **walk complete**, **walking** and **running** are all atomic states.

## Parallel states

A parallel state is a parallel state where all of its child states, also known as regions, are active simultaneously. The regions are separated inside the parallel state container by a dashed line.

Inside the **on a walk** parallel state, there could be two regions. One region contains the dog’s activity child states of **walking** and **running**, and the other region containing the dog’s tail states of **wagging** and **not wagging**. The dog can walk and wag its tail or run and wag its tail, it can also do both of these activities without wagging its tail.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/wagging.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/wagging-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog walk machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=1f43dcd3-255c-40bf-b6b0-eba9a2bccb23).

Both regions should also specify which child state is the initial state. In our **tail** region, the initial state is **not wagging**.

## Self-transition

A self-transition is when an event happens, but the transition returns to the same state. The transition arrow exits and re-enters the same state.

A helpful way to describe a self-transition is “doing something, not going somewhere” in the process.

In a **dog begging** process, there would be a **begging** state with a **gets treat** event. And for the dogs who love their food, no matter how many times you go through the **gets treat** event, the dog returns to its **begging** state.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/begging.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/begging-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog begging machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=933419cb-dd94-453c-a2b1-de2290c0a5a5).

## What next?

Now you know enough to get started in the [Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/editor). Get an [overview of the Stately Studio and its features](/studio), or [continue to learn more about states in detail](/states/intro).

:::xstate 

## XState basics

Are you looking for the XState basics? In XState, the concepts are the same, but you might be looking for the code. [Read the XState basics section](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart).

:::

Commit message:

Explain the machines shorthand for statecharts and state machines

docs/state-machines-and-statecharts.mdx, after:

---
title: What are state machines and statecharts?
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

State machines help us model how a process goes from state to state when an event occurs.

State machines are useful in software development because they help us capture all the states, events and transitions between them. Using state machines makes it easier to find impossible states and spot undesirable transitions.

State machines model your application logic. Below is the logic for a video player. When the video is Played, it is opened into fullscreen mode. When the video is stopped, it closes out of fullscreen mode. When the video player is in fullscreen mode, it can be _Playing_ or _Paused_.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/what-is-a-state-machine.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/what-is-a-state-machine-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the video player machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=dbcfca1c-075d-4cd6-a865-efcbd7be1544).

## What is a statechart?

Statecharts are fancy state machines used to model more complex logic.

Statecharts are a visual extension to state machines that use boxes and arrows, much like flowcharts and sequence diagrams. Statecharts add extra features not available in ordinary state machines, including  [hierarchy](/states/parent-states), [concurrency](/states/parallel-states) and [communication](/actions-and-actors/actors).

When you make a state machine in the [Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/editor), it’s also a statechart!

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, we refer to both state machines and statecharts as **machines**.

:::

## States

A state describes the machine’s status or mode, which could be as simple as *Asleep* and *Awake*. A state machine can only be in one state at a time.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake-states.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake-states-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog states machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=469f2d59-551f-43cb-bfc0-e6f3ea0f9d87).

A dog is always **asleep** or **awake**. The dog can’t be asleep and awake at the same time, and it’s impossible for the dog to be neither asleep nor awake. There are only these two states, a precisely limited, _finite_ number of states.


:::studio 

### States in the Stately Studio

The rounded rectangle boxes are states. [Read how to create states in the Stately Studio](/states/intro).

:::

## Transitions and events

How the dog goes between **asleep** and **awake** is through **transitions**. Events cause transitions; when an event happens, the machine transitions to the next state. The dog goes between **asleep** and **awake** through the **wake up** and **fall asleep** events.

Transitions are “deterministic”; each combination of state and event always points to the same next state. Dogs never **wake up** to become **asleep** or **fall asleep** to become **awake**.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/asleep-awake-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog states machine with events and transitions in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=e48e774e-c31f-4e51-a934-6b795c12b2b9).

With its two finite states and transitions, this tiny dog process is a _Finite State Machine._ A state machine is used to describe the behavior of something. The machine describes the thing’s states and the transitions between those states. It’s a Finite State Machine because it has a finite number of states. (Sometimes abbreviated to FSM by folks who love jargon).

:::studio 

### Events and transitions in the Stately Studio

In the Stately Studio, the arrows are transitions, and the rounded rectangles on the arrow’s lines are events. Each transition has a **source** state which comes before the transition, and a **target** state, which comes after the transition. The transition’s arrow starts from the source state and points to the target state. [Read how to create events and transitions in the Stately Studio](/transitions-and-events/intro).

:::

## Initial state

When a state machine starts, it enters the **initial state** first. A machine can only have one top-level initial state; if there were multiple initial states, the machine wouldn’t know where to start!

In a statechart describing the process of walking the dog, the initial state would be **waiting** to walk:

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/waiting.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/waiting-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog waiting machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=65cf2bcb-658d-40dc-bb26-80f26c159256).

:::studio 

### Initial states in the Stately Studio

The filled circle with an arrow icon represents the initial state. [Read how to create initial states in the Stately Studio](/states/initial-states).

:::

## Final state

Most processes with states will have a _final state_, the last state when the process is finished. The final state is represented by a double border on the state’s rounded rectangle box.

In the dog walking statechart, the final state would be **walk complete**.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Dog walking statechart showing waiting state transitioning through the leave home event to the on a walk state, then transitioning through the arrive home event to the final state of walk complete."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk-simple.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk-simple-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog walk machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=988d8d05-86ba-422a-8a28-d13cbf54d481).

## Parent states

A parent state is a state that can contain more states, also known as child states. These child states can only happen when the parent state is happening. Inside the **on a walk** state, there could be the child states of **walking** and **running**.

A parent state is symbolised by a labelled rectangle box that acts as a container for its child states.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/dog-walk-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog walk machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=988d8d05-86ba-422a-8a28-d13cbf54d481).

A parent state should also specify which child state is the initial state. In the **on a walk** parent state, the initial state is **walking**.

Parent and child states are one of the features that make statecharts capable of handling more complexity than an everyday state machine.

## Atomic states

An atomic state is a state that doesn’t have any child states. **Waiting**, **walk complete**, **walking** and **running** are all atomic states.

## Parallel states

A parallel state is a parallel state where all of its child states, also known as regions, are active simultaneously. The regions are separated inside the parallel state container by a dashed line.

Inside the **on a walk** parallel state, there could be two regions. One region contains the dog’s activity child states of **walking** and **running**, and the other region containing the dog’s tail states of **wagging** and **not wagging**. The dog can walk and wag its tail or run and wag its tail, it can also do both of these activities without wagging its tail.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/wagging.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/wagging-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog walk machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=1f43dcd3-255c-40bf-b6b0-eba9a2bccb23).

Both regions should also specify which child state is the initial state. In our **tail** region, the initial state is **not wagging**.

## Self-transition

A self-transition is when an event happens, but the transition returns to the same state. The transition arrow exits and re-enters the same state.

A helpful way to describe a self-transition is “doing something, not going somewhere” in the process.

In a **dog begging** process, there would be a **begging** state with a **gets treat** event. And for the dogs who love their food, no matter how many times you go through the **gets treat** event, the dog returns to its **begging** state.

<!-- no alt because the image is already described in the surrounding text -->

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt=""
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/begging.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/state-machines-and-statecharts/begging-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

[View the dog begging machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/1f84ff0d-fe41-4a92-ad5c-fadfa8b37ffb?machineId=933419cb-dd94-453c-a2b1-de2290c0a5a5).

## What next?

Now you know enough to get started in the [Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/editor). Get an [overview of the Stately Studio and its features](/studio), or [continue to learn more about states in detail](/states/intro).

:::xstate 

## XState basics

Are you looking for the XState basics? In XState, the concepts are the same, but you might be looking for the code. [Read the XState basics section](/xstate/basics/what-is-a-statechart).

:::
