docs/studio.mdx, before:

---
title: Stately Studio overview
slug: /
---

# Stately Studio

The Stately Studio is a suite of tools for building app logic.

<!-- TODO: screenshot of the studio -->

## Visual editor

The visual editor supports everything you need to build state machines and statecharts. The editor currently has two modes:

### Editor mode

Visually add, modify, and delete states, events, and transitions, as well as data including actions, descriptions, and invoked actors.

### Simulation mode

Run the statechart, trigger events, and see the active state nodes.

### Export

You can also **export machines to JSON, JavaScript and TypeScript**, ready to be used in your codebase with XState.

:::caution

Don’t confuse our visual editor with our [previous visualizer](https://stately.ai/viz), known as the Stately Viz. The Viz works well and has many valuable features, but it doesn’t have many of the best features of our visual editor, including drag-and-drop, descriptions, and XXX.

:::

## Projects and teams

<!-- TODO: screenshot of the projects -->

Brief intro, then link to [Read more about the Projects and Teams pages](/projects-and-teams).

<!-- TODO: screenshot of teams -->

## Discover machines

Brief intro, then link to [Read more about the Discover page](/discover).

<!-- TODO: screenshot of discover -->

## Our roadmap

Do you want to request a feature in the Stately Studio? [Check out our Canny roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io) to post your feature idea and upvote other features. Our roadmap also shows you the features we have planned, and those that are already in progress.

You can also keep up with the Stately team’s work in progress at our regular [office hour livestreams](https://youtube.com/statelyai).

:::xstate

## Powered by XState

The Stately Studio is powered by [XState](/xstate/installation), a best-in-class open source library for handling complexity at scale.

:::

Commit message:

Write copy for Discover page and Discover section on the Studio page
Still needs screenshots

docs/studio.mdx, after:

---
title: Stately Studio overview
slug: /
---

# Stately Studio

The Stately Studio is a suite of tools for building app logic.

<!-- TODO: screenshot of the studio -->

## Visual editor

The visual editor supports everything you need to build state machines and statecharts. The editor currently has two modes:

### Editor mode

Visually add, modify, and delete states, events, and transitions, as well as data including actions, descriptions, and invoked actors.

### Simulation mode

Run the statechart, trigger events, and see the active state nodes.

### Export

You can also **export machines to JSON, JavaScript and TypeScript**, ready to be used in your codebase with XState.

:::caution

Don’t confuse our visual editor with our [previous visualizer](https://stately.ai/viz), known as the Stately Viz. The Viz works well and has many valuable features, but it doesn’t have many of the best features of our visual editor, including drag-and-drop, descriptions, and XXX.

:::

## Projects and teams

<!-- TODO: screenshot of the projects -->

Brief intro, then link to [Read more about the Projects and Teams pages](/projects-and-teams).

<!-- TODO: screenshot of teams -->

## Discover machines

Are you seeking inspiration for your machine? Or do you want to learn from how somebody else models their machines?  The [Discover page](https://stately.ai/registry/discover) lists all the public machines created with the Stately Studio. [Read more about the Discover page](/discover).

<!-- TODO: screenshot of discover -->

## Our roadmap

Do you want to request a feature in the Stately Studio? [Check out our Canny roadmap](https://statelyai.canny.io) to post your feature idea and upvote other features. Our roadmap also shows you the features we have planned, and those that are already in progress.

You can also keep up with the Stately team’s work in progress at our regular [office hour livestreams](https://youtube.com/statelyai).

:::xstate

## Powered by XState

The Stately Studio is powered by [XState](/xstate/installation), a best-in-class open source library for handling complexity at scale.

:::
