docs/system.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Systems'
---

An actor system is a collection of actors that can communicate with each other. Actors can invoke/spawn other actors, which forms a natural hierarchy of actors that belong to the same system.

In XState, a system is implicitly created from the root actor, which is the actor that is returned from `createActor(machine).start()`. The system can be accessed from the `actor.system` property of actors, and from the destructured `{ system }` property from state machine actions:

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  entry: ({ system }) => {
    // ...
  },
});

const actor = createActor(machine).start();
// highlight-next-line
actor.system;
```

The root of a system can also be explicitly assigned a `systemId` in the `createActor(...)` function:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';

const actor = createActor(machine, {
  systemId: 'root-id',
});

actor.start();
```

This is useful for actors in the system to be able send events to the root actor.

:::studio

Coming soon… systems in Stately Studio’s editor 🤫

:::

## Actor registration

Actors can be registered with the system so that any other actor in the system can obtain a reference to it.

Invoked actors are registered with a system-wide `systemId` in the `invoke` object:

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor } from 'xstate';

const formMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    submit: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: sendTo(({ system }) => system.get('notifier'), {
        type: 'notify',
        message: 'Form submitted!',
      }),
    },
  },
});

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    // highlight-next-line
    systemId: 'notifier',
    src: notifierMachine,
  },
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    form: {
      invoke: formMachine,
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine).start();
```

Spawned actors are registered with a system-wide `systemId` in the 2nd argument of the `spawn` function:

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor, assign } from 'xstate';

const todoMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
});

const todosMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    'todo.add': {
      actions: assign({
        todos: ({ context, spawn }) => {
          const newTodo = spawn(todoMachine, {
            // highlight-next-line
            systemId: `todo-${context.todos.length}`,
          });

          return context.todos.concat(newTodo);
        },
      }),
    },
  },
});
```

- `systemId: 'actorId'`

## Actor communication

- Reference actor from system `system.get('actorId')`

## Stopping a system

- Stop from root actor: `actor.stop()`
- Cannot stop from descendant actors
  - Warning will be logged

## TypeScript

- `invoke.systemId`
- `spawn(thing, { systemId })`
- `system.get('actorId')`
- `rootActor.stop()`

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Add typescript page (#323)
* Fix missing bracket in code example

* Fix typo

* Add TypeScript page

* Link to TypeScript page in relevant locations with TS admonition

docs/system.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Systems'
---

An actor system is a collection of actors that can communicate with each other. Actors can invoke/spawn other actors, which forms a natural hierarchy of actors that belong to the same system.

In XState, a system is implicitly created from the root actor, which is the actor that is returned from `createActor(machine).start()`. The system can be accessed from the `actor.system` property of actors, and from the destructured `{ system }` property from state machine actions:

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine({
  // highlight-next-line
  entry: ({ system }) => {
    // ...
  },
});

const actor = createActor(machine).start();
// highlight-next-line
actor.system;
```

The root of a system can also be explicitly assigned a `systemId` in the `createActor(...)` function:

```ts
import { createActor } from 'xstate';

const actor = createActor(machine, {
  systemId: 'root-id',
});

actor.start();
```

This is useful for actors in the system to be able send events to the root actor.

:::studio

Coming soon… systems in Stately Studio’s editor 🤫

:::

## Actor registration

Actors can be registered with the system so that any other actor in the system can obtain a reference to it.

Invoked actors are registered with a system-wide `systemId` in the `invoke` object:

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor } from 'xstate';

const formMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    submit: {
      // highlight-next-line
      actions: sendTo(({ system }) => system.get('notifier'), {
        type: 'notify',
        message: 'Form submitted!',
      }),
    },
  },
});

const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  invoke: {
    // highlight-next-line
    systemId: 'notifier',
    src: notifierMachine,
  },
  // ...
  states: {
    // ...
    form: {
      invoke: formMachine,
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine).start();
```

Spawned actors are registered with a system-wide `systemId` in the 2nd argument of the `spawn` function:

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor, assign } from 'xstate';

const todoMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
});

const todosMachine = createMachine({
  // ...
  on: {
    'todo.add': {
      actions: assign({
        todos: ({ context, spawn }) => {
          const newTodo = spawn(todoMachine, {
            // highlight-next-line
            systemId: `todo-${context.todos.length}`,
          });

          return context.todos.concat(newTodo);
        },
      }),
    },
  },
});
```

- `systemId: 'actorId'`

## Actor communication

- Reference actor from system `system.get('actorId')`

## Stopping a system

- Stop from root actor: `actor.stop()`
- Cannot stop from descendant actors
  - Warning will be logged

## TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.** 

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

- `invoke.systemId`
- `spawn(thing, { systemId })`
- `system.get('actorId')`
- `rootActor.stop()`

## Cheatsheet

_Coming soon_
