docs/tags.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Tags'
---

State nodes can have **tags**, which are string terms that help group or categorize the state node. For example, you can signify which state nodes represent states in which data is being loaded by using a "loading" tag, and determine if a state contains those tagged state nodes with `state.hasTag(tag)`:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      tags: ['visible'],
      // ...
    },
    form: {
      tags: ['visible'],
      // ...
    },
    thanks: {
      tags: ['visible', 'confetti'],
      // ...
    },
    closed: {
      tags: ['hidden'],
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine).start();

console.log(feedbackActor..getSnapshot().hasTag('visible'));
// logs true
```

## TypeScript

You can strongly type the `guards` of your machine in the `types.guards` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    tags: 'pending' | 'success' | 'error';
    // highlight-end
  },
  // ...
  states: {
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['pending'],
    },
  },
});

const actor = createActor(machine).start();

actor
  .getSnapshot()
  // Autocompleted
  .hasTag('pending');
```

Commit message:

Link to TypeScript page in relevant locations with TS admonition

docs/tags.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Tags'
---

State nodes can have **tags**, which are string terms that help group or categorize the state node. For example, you can signify which state nodes represent states in which data is being loaded by using a "loading" tag, and determine if a state contains those tagged state nodes with `state.hasTag(tag)`:

```ts
const feedbackMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'feedback',
  initial: 'prompt',
  states: {
    prompt: {
      tags: ['visible'],
      // ...
    },
    form: {
      tags: ['visible'],
      // ...
    },
    thanks: {
      tags: ['visible', 'confetti'],
      // ...
    },
    closed: {
      tags: ['hidden'],
    },
  },
});

const feedbackActor = createActor(feedbackMachine).start();

console.log(feedbackActor..getSnapshot().hasTag('visible'));
// logs true
```

## TypeScript

:::typescript

**XState v5 requires TypeScript version 5.0 or greater.** 

For best results, use the latest TypeScript version. [Read more about XState and TypeScript](typescript.mdx)

:::

You can strongly type the `tags` of your machine in the `types.tags` property of the machine config.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    // highlight-start
    tags: 'pending' | 'success' | 'error';
    // highlight-end
  },
  // ...
  states: {
    loadingUser: {
      tags: ['pending'],
    },
  },
});

const actor = createActor(machine).start();

actor
  .getSnapshot()
  // Autocompleted
  .hasTag('pending');
```
