docs/teams.mdx, before:

---
title: Teams
description: 'You can create and join teams in Stately Studio to share and collaborate on team projects.'
---

You can create and join teams in Stately Studio to share and collaborate on team projects.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio Team page for the Voyager team, showing Captain Janeway with the owner and Admin role, Commander Chakotay with an Admin role, Lieutenant Tuvok, Lieutenant Torres, and Lieutenant Paris with Editor roles, and Ensign Kim with a Viewer role."
    sources={{
      light: '/teams.png',
      dark: '/teams-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

:::studio

Teams and shared projects are Pro features of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](https://stately.ai/pricing) or [upgrade to the Pro plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

## Team roles

Team members can have one of the following roles: [Owner](/teams.mdx#owner-role), [Admin](/teams.mdx#admin-role), [Editor](/teams.mdx#editor-role), or [Viewer](/teams.mdx#viewer-role). Team owners or admins assign the role to the new team member when inviting them to join the team.

The following table is an overview of the capabilities of each team role:

| Capability                               | Owner  | Admin  | Editor | Viewer |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| View team projects and machines          | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| View other team members                  | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Export team machines                     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Fork team projects and machines          | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Edit existing team projects              | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Create team projects                     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Lock team machines                       | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Reassign Admin, Editor, and Viewer roles | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Invite new team members                  | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Change project visibility                | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Edit the team name                       | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Delete the team                          | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |

### Owner role

Pro subscribers can create teams and they become their teams' owner by default. The team owner can:

- Manage their account billing, including changes to the number of paid seats for their teams.
- Create new teams and delete teams
- Edit the team name
- Change project visibility
- Invite new team members
- View team members
- Give team members Admin, Editor, and Viewer roles
- Create team projects
- Lock team machines
- Edit, fork, export, and view team projects and machines

#### Teams members and Pro plan seats

Creating a team requires the Pro plan of Stately Studio, including enough seats in your plan to cover the number of members in your team (Viewers are free). You can add more seats to your Pro plan anytime from the [**Billing** page](https://stately.ai/registry/billing) in your Profile menu.

### Admin role

Users with the Admin role can:

- Edit the team name
- Change project visibility
- Invite new team members
- View team members
- Give team members Editor and Viewer roles
- Create team projects
- Lock team machines
- Edit, fork, export, and view team projects and machines

### Editor role

Users with the Editor role can:

- View team members
- Create team projects
- Lock team machines
- Edit, fork, export, and view team projects and machines

### Viewer role

:::studio

A Viewer is free of charge and does not count toward your number of seats.

:::

Users with the Viewer role can:

- View team members
- View team projects and machines
- Export team machines

## Create a team

1. Use the **Create team** link in the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace to open the Create team form.
2. Name your team and use the **Create team** button to create your team.

By default, teams have only one member, the creator and Owner. [Invite new members](/teams.mdx#invite-new-members-to-a-team) to add more members to your team.

## Edit the team name

1. Select the team from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the Settings tab.
3. Edit the team name and use the **Save changes** button to update your team name.

## Invite new members to a team

You need to have [enough seats on your Pro plan](/teams.mdx#teams-members-and-pro-plan-seats) to add more members to your team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. On your team page, use the **Members** tab to view existing members and their roles and invite new members.
3. Enter the invitee’s email address and choose their role from the dropdown menu.
4. Use the **Invite to team** button to send the invitation.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio Team page for the Voyager team, showing the form to invite members via email and a pending invitation for Seven of Nine with the Viewer role."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/teams/pending-invitations.png',
      dark: '/assets/teams/pending-invitations-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

The invitation will be sent to the invitee’s email address. The invitee will appear as a team member in the **Pending** section of the **Members** page until they accept the invitation. Once the invitation is accepted, the team member will be listed on the **Members** page, organized by role.

:::studio

A subscription seat is only taken up at the time of accepting the invitation. Any particular team member is considered to occupy a single seat even if they are a member of more than one team.

:::

## Change a team member’s role

To change a team member’s role, you must have the [Owner role](/teams.mdx#owner-role) or [Admin role](/teams.mdx#admin-role) for that team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Members** tab on the team page.
3. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the team member’s name in the **Members** list to choose from the options **Make a Viewer**, **Make an Editor**, or **Make an Admin**.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio Team page for the Voyager team, showing the options for Lieutenant Tuvok as ‘Make a Viewer’, ‘Make an Editor,’ and ‘Remove from team.’"
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/teams/edit-role.png',
      dark: '/assets/teams/edit-role-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Remove a member from a team

To remove a member from a team, you must have the [owner role](/teams.mdx#owner-role) or [Admin role](/teams.mdx#admin-role) for that team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Members** tab on the team page.
3. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the team member’s name in the **Members** list to choose the **Remove from team** option.

## Leave a team

Any team member with **Admin**, **Editor**, or **Viewer** roles can leave a team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Members** tab on the team page.
3. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the team member’s name in the **Members** list to choose the **Leave team** option.

Team owners cannot leave their own teams, but they can delete the team.

## Delete a team

Only team owners can delete a team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Settings** tab on the team page.
3. Use the **Delete team** button to delete your team.
4. Confirm the team deletion using the **Delete** button in the Delete team dialog.

## Create a shared team project

Only team members with the **Owner**, **Admin**, or **Editor** roles can create team projects.

[Read more about how to create shared team projects on the Projects page](/projects.mdx#create-a-shared-team-project).

Commit message:

Update the Teams page with the new Team plan in mind

docs/teams.mdx, after:

---
title: Teams
description: 'You can create and join teams in Stately Studio to share and collaborate on team projects.'
---

You can create and join teams in Stately Studio to share and collaborate on team projects.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio Team page for the Voyager team, showing Captain Janeway with the owner and Admin role, Commander Chakotay with an Admin role, Lieutenant Tuvok, Lieutenant Torres, and Lieutenant Paris with Editor roles, and Ensign Kim with a Viewer role."
    sources={{
      light: '/teams.png',
      dark: '/teams-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

:::studio

Teams and shared projects are [Team features](/studio-team-plan.mdx) of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Team plan](https://stately.ai/pricing) or [upgrade to the Team plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

## Team roles

Team members can have one of the following roles: [Owner](/teams.mdx#owner-role), [Admin](/teams.mdx#admin-role), [Editor](/teams.mdx#editor-role), or [Viewer](/teams.mdx#viewer-role). Team owners or admins assign the role to the new team member when inviting them to join the team.

The following table is an overview of the capabilities of each team role:

| Capability                               | Owner  | Admin  | Editor | Viewer |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| View team projects and machines          | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| View other team members                  | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Export team machines                     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Fork team projects and machines          | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Edit existing team projects              | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Create team projects                     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Lock team machines                       | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
| Reassign Admin, Editor, and Viewer roles | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Invite new team members                  | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Change project visibility                | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Edit the team name                       | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |
| Delete the team                          | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  | 🚫 No  |

### Owner role

Team subscribers can create teams and they become their teams' owner by default. The team owner can:

- Manage their account billing, including changes to the number of paid seats for their teams.
- Create new teams and delete teams
- Edit the team name
- Change project visibility
- Invite new team members
- View team members
- Give team members Admin, Editor, and Viewer roles
- Create team projects
- Lock team machines
- Edit, fork, export, and view team projects and machines

#### Teams members and the available plan seats

Creating a team requires the Team plan of Stately Studio, with includes up to 10 seats. That means one seat for the Team subscription owner plus 9 additional seats (Viewers are free). These seats can be allocated to one or more teams, in any configuration desired.

### Admin role

Users with the Admin role can:

- Edit the team name
- Change project visibility
- Invite new team members
- View team members
- Give team members Editor and Viewer roles
- Create team projects
- Lock team machines
- Edit, fork, export, and view team projects and machines

### Editor role

Users with the Editor role can:

- View team members
- Create team projects
- Lock team machines
- Edit, fork, export, and view team projects and machines

### Viewer role

:::studio

A Viewer is free of charge and does not count toward your number of seats.

:::

Users with the Viewer role can:

- View team members
- View team projects and machines
- Export team machines

## Create a team

1. Use the **Create team** link in the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace to open the Create team form.
2. Name your team and use the **Create team** button to create your team.

By default, teams have only one member, the creator and Owner. [Invite new members](/teams.mdx#invite-new-members-to-a-team) to add more members to your team.

## Edit the team name

1. Select the team from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the Settings tab.
3. Edit the team name and use the **Save changes** button to update your team name.

## Invite new members to a team

You need to have [enough seats on your Pro plan](/teams.mdx#teams-members-and-pro-plan-seats) to add more members to your team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. On your team page, use the **Members** tab to view existing members and their roles and invite new members.
3. Enter the invitee’s email address and choose their role from the dropdown menu.
4. Use the **Invite to team** button to send the invitation.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio Team page for the Voyager team, showing the form to invite members via email and a pending invitation for Seven of Nine with the Viewer role."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/teams/pending-invitations.png',
      dark: '/assets/teams/pending-invitations-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

The invitation will be sent to the invitee’s email address. The invitee will appear as a team member in the **Pending** section of the **Members** page until they accept the invitation. Once the invitation is accepted, the team member will be listed on the **Members** page, organized by role.

:::studio

A subscription seat is only taken up at the time of accepting the invitation. Any particular team member is considered to occupy a single seat even if they are a member of more than one team.

:::

## Change a team member’s role

To change a team member’s role, you must have the [Owner role](/teams.mdx#owner-role) or [Admin role](/teams.mdx#admin-role) for that team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Members** tab on the team page.
3. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the team member’s name in the **Members** list to choose from the options **Make a Viewer**, **Make an Editor**, or **Make an Admin**.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio Team page for the Voyager team, showing the options for Lieutenant Tuvok as ‘Make a Viewer’, ‘Make an Editor,’ and ‘Remove from team.’"
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/teams/edit-role.png',
      dark: '/assets/teams/edit-role-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Remove a member from a team

To remove a member from a team, you must have the [owner role](/teams.mdx#owner-role) or [Admin role](/teams.mdx#admin-role) for that team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Members** tab on the team page.
3. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the team member’s name in the **Members** list to choose the **Remove from team** option.

## Leave a team

Any team member with **Admin**, **Editor**, or **Viewer** roles can leave a team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Members** tab on the team page.
3. Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the team member’s name in the **Members** list to choose the **Leave team** option.

Team owners cannot leave their own teams, but they can delete the team.

## Delete a team

Only team owners can delete a team.

1. Navigate to the team page from the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.
2. Navigate to the **Settings** tab on the team page.
3. Use the **Delete team** button to delete your team.
4. Confirm the team deletion using the **Delete** button in the Delete team dialog.

## Create a shared team project

Only team members with the **Owner**, **Admin**, or **Editor** roles can create team projects.

[Read more about how to create shared team projects on the Projects page](/projects.mdx#create-a-shared-team-project).
