docs/visualizer.mdx, before:

---
title: Visualizer
---

# Visualizer

:::studio

Are you looking for the _Stately Studio_ visual _editor_? Check out the [Stately Studio overview](/).

:::

![Stately Visualizer with a split screen. The left side shows a visualized machine for a video player. The right side shows the JavaScript used to create the visualized machine.](/assets/tools/visualizer/visualizer.png)

The [Stately Visualizer](https://stately.ai/viz) is a tool for creating and inspecting statecharts to visualize the state of your applications. You can use the viz as a playground for exploring XState’s capabilities.

:::tip

Stately still supports the Stately Visualizer, but you will find many more advanced features, including Stately Studio [visual editor](/studio.mdx#stately-studios-editor), teams, and shared projects.

:::

As a visual tool, the Visualizer helps developers get an overview of their application logic and makes it easy to share with designers, project managers and the rest of the team.

- Write your application logic and immediately visualize it.
- Save your statecharts to the Stately Registry and share them with anybody.
- Share your statecharts in your team’s documentation with embedded mode and live-updating snapshot images.

## Try the Visualizer

- [Take me to the Visualizer!](https://stately.ai/viz)
- [Try the Visualizer in Inspect mode](https://stately.ai/viz?inspect).

The Visualizer is available now and will be free and open source forever. Contributions are welcome!

## Feedback and bug reports

If you have any feedback or feature requests, please [join our Discord server](https://discord.gg/xstate), where you’ll find our team and the wonderful Stately community.

Please [submit any bug reports as GitHub issues on the XState repository](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/issues).

Commit message:

Update viz docs for deprecation (will link to from viz) (#243)

docs/visualizer.mdx, after:

---
title: Visualizer
---

# Visualizer (Legacy)

:::studio

Are you looking for the _Stately Studio_ visual _editor_? Check out the [Stately Studio overview](/).

:::

![Stately Visualizer with a split screen. The left side shows a visualized machine for a video player. The right side shows the JavaScript used to create the visualized machine.](/assets/tools/visualizer/visualizer.png)

The [Stately Visualizer](https://stately.ai/viz) is a tool for creating and inspecting statecharts to visualize the state of your applications. You can use the viz as a playground for exploring XState’s capabilities.

:::caution

The XState Visualizer is deprecated and is no longer maintained.

:::

We recommend you only continue using the legacy visualizer if you need to execute actions and guards or visualize multiple machines simultaneously. These features are coming to the [Stately editor](studio.mdx) very soon.

## Use the Visualizer

- [Take me to the Visualizer](https://stately.ai/viz)
- [Try the Visualizer in Inspect mode](https://stately.ai/viz?inspect).

The Visualizer is deprecated and we encourage you to migrate your projects to use the [Stately editor](studio.mdx).

## Feedback and bug reports

If you have any feedback or feature requests, please [join our Discord server](https://discord.gg/xstate), where you’ll find our team and the wonderful Stately community.

Please [submit any bug reports as GitHub issues on the XState repository](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/issues).
