docs/xstate-react.mdx, before:

---
title: '@xstate/react'
---

The [@xstate/react package](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-react) contains hooks and helper functions for using [XState](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate) with [React](https://github.com/facebook/react/).

## Templates

Use the following templates to get started quickly with XState and React:

- [XState React template (CodeSandbox)](https://codesandbox.io/p/devbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/react-ts)
- [XState React template (StackBlitz)](https://stackblitz.com/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/react-ts?file=%2Fsrc%2FfeedbackMachine.ts)

## Installation

Install the latest versions of both `xstate` and `@xstate/react`. `xstate` is a peer dependency of `@xstate/react`.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="npm" label="npm">

```bash
npm install xstate @xstate/react
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm">

```bash
pnpm install xstate @xstate/react
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">

```bash
yarn add xstate @xstate/react
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::studio

Want to get started with React extra fast? Try the [generate React app feature in Stately Studio](generate-react.mdx).

:::

## Examples

- [XState + React TodoMVC (CodeSandbox)](https://codesandbox.io/s/xstate-todomvc-33wr94qv1)

## API

### `useActor(actorLogic)`

A [React hook](https://reactjs.org/hooks) that creates an actor from the the given `actorLogic` and starts an actor that runs for the lifetime of the component.

#### Arguments

- `actorLogic` - The actor logic to create an actor from; e.g. `createMachine(...)`, `fromPromise(...)`, etc.
- `options?` (optional) - Actor options

**Returns** a tuple of `[snapshot, send, actorRef]`:

- `snapshot` - Represents the current state of the actor.
- `send` - A function that sends events to the running actor.
- `actorRef` - The started actor.

#### Examples

```tsx
import { fromPromise } from 'xstate';
import { useActor } from '@xstate/react';

const promiseLogic = fromPromise(async () => {
  const data = await getData(/* ... */);

  return data;
});

function Component() {
  // highlight-next-line  
  const [state, send] = useActor(promiseLogic);

  if (state.status === 'done') {
    return <div>{state.output}</div>;
  }

  if (state.status === 'active') {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }

  return null;
}
```

### `useMachine(machine, options?)`

A [React hook](https://reactjs.org/hooks) that creates an actor from the given `machine` and starts an actor that runs for the lifetime of the component.

#### Arguments

- `machine` - An [XState machine](machines.mdx)
- `options?` - [Actor options](machines.mdx#creating-actors-from-machines).

**Returns** a tuple of `[snapshot, send, actorRef]`:

- `snapshot` - Represents the current state of the machine.
- `send` - A function that sends events to the running actor.
- `actorRef` - The started actor.

#### Examples

```tsx
import { useMachine } from '@xstate/react';

function Component() {
  const [snapshot, send] = useMachine(machine);
  
  // Machine with provided implementations
  // Will keep provided implementations up-to-date
  const [snapshot, send] = useMachine(
    machine.provide({
      actions: {
        doSomething: ({ context }) => {
          // ...
        },
      },
    }),
  );
}
```

### `useActorRef(machine, options?)`

A React hook that returns the `actorRef` created from the `machine` with actor `options` that are passed to `createActor(logic, options)`, if specified. It starts the actor ref and runs it for the lifetime of the component. 

The `useActorRef(...)` hook is useful when you want fine-grained control, e.g. to add logging, or minimize re-renders. In contrast to `useActor(...)` that would flush each update from the machine to the React component, `useActorRef(...)` instead returns a static reference (to just the machine actor) which will not rerender when its state changes.

You can use the `useSelector(...)` hook to select part of the snapshot from the `actorRef` whenever it updates.

#### Arguments

- `actorLogic`- The actor logic to create an actor from; e.g. `createMachine(...)`, `fromPromise(...)`, etc.
- `options?` (optional) - Actor options

```js
import { useActorRef } from '@xstate/react';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

const App = () => {
  const actorRef = useActorRef(someMachine);

  // ...
};
```

Providing machine implementations:

```js
// ...

const App = () => {
  const actorRef = useActorRef(
    someMachine.provide({
      actions: {
        // ...
      },
    }),
  );

  // ...
};
```

### `useSelector(actorRef, selector, compare?, getSnapshot?)`

A React hook that returns the selected value from the snapshot of an `actorRef`, such as a actor ref. This hook will only cause a rerender if the selected value changes, as determined by the optional `compare` function.

#### Arguments

- `actorRef` - an actor ref
- `selector` - a function that takes in an actor’s snapshot as an argument and returns the desired selected value.
- `compare` (optional) - a function that determines if the current selected value is the same as the previous selected value.
- `getSnapshot` (optional) - a function that should return the latest emitted value from the `actor`.
  - Defaults to attempting to get the `actor.state`, or returning `undefined` if that does not exist. Will automatically pull the state from actor refs.

#### Examples

```js
import { useSelector } from '@xstate/react';

// tip: optimize selectors by defining them externally when possible
const selectCount = (snapshot) => snapshot.context.count;

const App = ({ actorRef }) => {
  const count = useSelector(actorRef, selectCount);

  // ...
};
```

With `compare` function:

```js
// ...

const selectUser = (snapshot) => snapshot.context.user;
const compareUser = (prevUser, nextUser) => prevUser.id === nextUser.id;

const App = ({ actorRef }) => {
  const user = useSelector(actorRef, selectUser, compareUser);

  // ...
};
```

### `createActorContext(logic)`

Returns a [React Context object](https://beta.reactjs.org/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context) that creates an actor from the provided actor `logic` and makes the actor available through React Context. There are helper methods for accessing state and the actor ref.

#### Arguments

- `logic` - Actor logic, like an [XState machine](machines.mdx)

Returns a React Context object that contains the following properties:

- `Provider` - a React Context Provider component with the following props:
  - `logic` - Actor logic, such as an [XState machine](machines.mdx) ,that must be of the same type as the actor logic passed to `createActorContext(...)`
- `useSelector(selector, compare?)` - a React hook that takes in a `selector` function and optional `compare` function and returns the selected value from the actor snapshot
- `useActorRef()` - a React hook that returns the actor ref of the actor created from the actor `logic`

Creating a React Context for the actor and providing it in app scope:

```js
import { createActorContext } from '@xstate/react';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

const SomeMachineContext = createActorContext(someMachine);

function App() {
  return (
    <SomeMachineContext.Provider>
      <SomeComponent />
    </SomeMachineContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

Consuming the actor in a component:

```js
import { SomeMachineContext } from '../path/to/SomeMachineContext';

function SomeComponent() {
  const count = SomeMachineContext.useSelector((state) => state.context.count);
  const someActorRef = SomeMachineContext.useActorRef();

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {count}</p>
      <button onClick={() => someActorRef.send({ type: 'inc' })}>
        Increment
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Providing a similar machine:

```js
import { SomeMachineContext } from '../path/to/SomeMachineContext';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

function SomeComponent() {
  return (
    <SomeMachineContext.Provider
      logic={someMachine.provide({
        actions: {
          someAction: differentImplementation,
        },
        // ... More implementations
      })}
    >
      <SomeOtherComponent />
    </SomeMachineContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

### Shallow comparison

The default comparison is a strict reference comparison (`===`). If your selector returns non-primitive values, such as objects or arrays, you should keep this in mind and either return the same reference, or provide a shallow or deep comparator.

The `shallowEqual(...)` comparator function is available for shallow comparison:

```js
import { useSelector, shallowEqual } from '@xstate/react';

// ...

const selectUser = (state) => state.context.user;

const App = ({ actorRef }) => {
  // shallowEqual comparator is needed to compare the object, whose
  // reference might change despite the shallow object values being equal
  const user = useSelector(actorRef, selectUser, shallowEqual);

  // ...
};
```

With `useActorRef(...)`:

```js
import { useActorRef, useSelector } from '@xstate/react';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

const selectCount = (state) => state.context.count;

const App = () => {
  const actorRef = useActorRef(someMachine);
  const count = useSelector(actorRef, selectCount);

  // ...
};
```

## Configuring machines

Existing machines can be customized by providing different implementations in `machine.provide(implementations)`.

Example: the `'fetchData'` actor ref and `'notifySuccess'` action are both configurable:

```js
const fetchMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'fetch',
  initial: 'idle',
  context: {
    data: undefined,
    error: undefined,
  },
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: { FETCH: 'loading' },
    },
    loading: {
      invoke: {
        src: 'fetchData',
        onDone: {
          target: 'success',
          actions: assign({
            data: ({ event }) => event.output,
          }),
        },
        onError: {
          target: 'failure',
          actions: assign({
            error: ({ event }) => event.error,
          }),
        },
      },
    },
    success: {
      entry: 'notifySuccess',
      type: 'final',
    },
    failure: {
      on: {
        RETRY: 'loading',
      },
    },
  },
});

const Fetcher = ({ onResolve }) => {
  const [state, send] = useMachine(
    fetchMachine.provide({
      actions: {
        notifySuccess: ({ context }) => onResolve(context.data),
      },
      actors: {
        fetchData: fromPromise(() =>
          fetch(`some/api/${e.query}`).then((res) => res.json()),
        ),
      },
    }),
  );

  switch (state.value) {
    case 'idle':
      return (
        <button onClick={() => send({ type: 'FETCH', query: 'something' })}>
          Search for something
        </button>
      );
    case 'loading':
      return <div>Searching...</div>;
    case 'success':
      return <div>Success! Data: {state.context.data}</div>;
    case 'failure':
      return (
        <>
          <p>{state.context.error.message}</p>
          <button onClick={() => send({ type: 'RETRY' })}>Retry</button>
        </>
      );
    default:
      return null;
  }
};
```

## Matching states

When using [hierarchical](parent-states.mdx) and [parallel](parallel-states.mdx) machines, the state values will be objects, not strings. In this case, it is best to use [`state.matches(...)`](states.mdx#statematchesstatevalue).

We can do this with `if/else if/else` blocks:

```js
// ...
if (state.matches('idle')) {
  return /* ... */;
} else if (state.matches({ loading: 'user' })) {
  return /* ... */;
} else if (state.matches({ loading: 'friends' })) {
  return /* ... */;
} else {
  return null;
}
```

We can also continue to use `switch`, but we must make an adjustment to our approach. By setting the expression of the `switch` to `true`, we can use [`state.matches(...)`](states.mdx#statematchesstatevalue) as a predicate in each `case`:

```js
switch (true) {
  case state.matches('idle'):
    return /* ... */;
  case state.matches({ loading: 'user' }):
    return /* ... */;
  case state.matches({ loading: 'friends' }):
    return /* ... */;
  default:
    return null;
}
```

A ternary statement can also be considered, especially within rendered JSX:

```jsx
const Loader = () => {
  const [state, send] = useMachine(/* ... */);

  return (
    <div>
      {state.matches('idle') ? (
        <Loader.Idle />
      ) : state.matches({ loading: 'user' }) ? (
        <Loader.LoadingUser />
      ) : state.matches({ loading: 'friends' }) ? (
        <Loader.LoadingFriends />
      ) : null}
    </div>
  );
};
```

## Persisted and rehydrated State

You can persist and rehydrate state with `useMachine(...)` via `options.snapshot` in the 2nd argument:

```js
// ...

// Get the persisted state config object from somewhere, e.g. localStorage
const persistedState = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('some-persisted-state-key'));

const App = () => {
  const [state, send] = useMachine(someMachine, {
    snapshot: persistedState // provide persisted state config object here
  });

  // state will initially be that persisted state, not the machine’s initialState

  return (/* ... */)
}
```

## Actor refs

The `actorRef` created in `useMachine(machine)` can be referenced as the third returned value:

```js
//                  vvvvvvvv
const [state, send, actorRef] = useMachine(someMachine);
```

You can subscribe to that actor ref's state changes with the [`useEffect` hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html):

```js
// ...

useEffect(() => {
  const subscription = actorRef.subscribe((snapshot) => {
    // simple logging
    console.log(snapshot);
  });

  return subscription.unsubscribe;
}, [actorRef]); // note: actor ref should never change
```

## Resources

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

TODO: add Todo example back

docs/xstate-react.mdx, after:

---
title: '@xstate/react'
---

The [@xstate/react package](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/packages/xstate-react) contains hooks and helper functions for using [XState](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate) with [React](https://github.com/facebook/react/).

## Templates

Use the following templates to get started quickly with XState and React:

- [XState React template (CodeSandbox)](https://codesandbox.io/p/devbox/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/react-ts)
- [XState React template (StackBlitz)](https://stackblitz.com/github/statelyai/xstate/tree/main/templates/react-ts?file=%2Fsrc%2FfeedbackMachine.ts)

## Installation

Install the latest versions of both `xstate` and `@xstate/react`. `xstate` is a peer dependency of `@xstate/react`.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="npm" label="npm">

```bash
npm install xstate @xstate/react
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm">

```bash
pnpm install xstate @xstate/react
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">

```bash
yarn add xstate @xstate/react
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::studio

Want to get started with React extra fast? Try the [generate React app feature in Stately Studio](generate-react.mdx).

:::

## Examples

_Coming soon_

## API

### `useActor(actorLogic)`

A [React hook](https://reactjs.org/hooks) that creates an actor from the the given `actorLogic` and starts an actor that runs for the lifetime of the component.

#### Arguments

- `actorLogic` - The actor logic to create an actor from; e.g. `createMachine(...)`, `fromPromise(...)`, etc.
- `options?` (optional) - Actor options

**Returns** a tuple of `[snapshot, send, actorRef]`:

- `snapshot` - Represents the current state of the actor.
- `send` - A function that sends events to the running actor.
- `actorRef` - The started actor.

#### Examples

```tsx
import { fromPromise } from 'xstate';
import { useActor } from '@xstate/react';

const promiseLogic = fromPromise(async () => {
  const data = await getData(/* ... */);

  return data;
});

function Component() {
  // highlight-next-line  
  const [state, send] = useActor(promiseLogic);

  if (state.status === 'done') {
    return <div>{state.output}</div>;
  }

  if (state.status === 'active') {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }

  return null;
}
```

### `useMachine(machine, options?)`

A [React hook](https://reactjs.org/hooks) that creates an actor from the given `machine` and starts an actor that runs for the lifetime of the component.

#### Arguments

- `machine` - An [XState machine](machines.mdx)
- `options?` - [Actor options](machines.mdx#creating-actors-from-machines).

**Returns** a tuple of `[snapshot, send, actorRef]`:

- `snapshot` - Represents the current state of the machine.
- `send` - A function that sends events to the running actor.
- `actorRef` - The started actor.

#### Examples

```tsx
import { useMachine } from '@xstate/react';

function Component() {
  const [snapshot, send] = useMachine(machine);
  
  // Machine with provided implementations
  // Will keep provided implementations up-to-date
  const [snapshot, send] = useMachine(
    machine.provide({
      actions: {
        doSomething: ({ context }) => {
          // ...
        },
      },
    }),
  );
}
```

### `useActorRef(machine, options?)`

A React hook that returns the `actorRef` created from the `machine` with actor `options` that are passed to `createActor(logic, options)`, if specified. It starts the actor ref and runs it for the lifetime of the component. 

The `useActorRef(...)` hook is useful when you want fine-grained control, e.g. to add logging, or minimize re-renders. In contrast to `useActor(...)` that would flush each update from the machine to the React component, `useActorRef(...)` instead returns a static reference (to just the machine actor) which will not rerender when its state changes.

You can use the `useSelector(...)` hook to select part of the snapshot from the `actorRef` whenever it updates.

#### Arguments

- `actorLogic`- The actor logic to create an actor from; e.g. `createMachine(...)`, `fromPromise(...)`, etc.
- `options?` (optional) - Actor options

```js
import { useActorRef } from '@xstate/react';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

const App = () => {
  const actorRef = useActorRef(someMachine);

  // ...
};
```

Providing machine implementations:

```js
// ...

const App = () => {
  const actorRef = useActorRef(
    someMachine.provide({
      actions: {
        // ...
      },
    }),
  );

  // ...
};
```

### `useSelector(actorRef, selector, compare?, getSnapshot?)`

A React hook that returns the selected value from the snapshot of an `actorRef`, such as a actor ref. This hook will only cause a rerender if the selected value changes, as determined by the optional `compare` function.

#### Arguments

- `actorRef` - an actor ref
- `selector` - a function that takes in an actor’s snapshot as an argument and returns the desired selected value.
- `compare` (optional) - a function that determines if the current selected value is the same as the previous selected value.
- `getSnapshot` (optional) - a function that should return the latest emitted value from the `actor`.
  - Defaults to attempting to get the `actor.state`, or returning `undefined` if that does not exist. Will automatically pull the state from actor refs.

#### Examples

```js
import { useSelector } from '@xstate/react';

// tip: optimize selectors by defining them externally when possible
const selectCount = (snapshot) => snapshot.context.count;

const App = ({ actorRef }) => {
  const count = useSelector(actorRef, selectCount);

  // ...
};
```

With `compare` function:

```js
// ...

const selectUser = (snapshot) => snapshot.context.user;
const compareUser = (prevUser, nextUser) => prevUser.id === nextUser.id;

const App = ({ actorRef }) => {
  const user = useSelector(actorRef, selectUser, compareUser);

  // ...
};
```

### `createActorContext(logic)`

Returns a [React Context object](https://beta.reactjs.org/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context) that creates an actor from the provided actor `logic` and makes the actor available through React Context. There are helper methods for accessing state and the actor ref.

#### Arguments

- `logic` - Actor logic, like an [XState machine](machines.mdx)

Returns a React Context object that contains the following properties:

- `Provider` - a React Context Provider component with the following props:
  - `logic` - Actor logic, such as an [XState machine](machines.mdx) ,that must be of the same type as the actor logic passed to `createActorContext(...)`
- `useSelector(selector, compare?)` - a React hook that takes in a `selector` function and optional `compare` function and returns the selected value from the actor snapshot
- `useActorRef()` - a React hook that returns the actor ref of the actor created from the actor `logic`

Creating a React Context for the actor and providing it in app scope:

```js
import { createActorContext } from '@xstate/react';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

const SomeMachineContext = createActorContext(someMachine);

function App() {
  return (
    <SomeMachineContext.Provider>
      <SomeComponent />
    </SomeMachineContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

Consuming the actor in a component:

```js
import { SomeMachineContext } from '../path/to/SomeMachineContext';

function SomeComponent() {
  const count = SomeMachineContext.useSelector((state) => state.context.count);
  const someActorRef = SomeMachineContext.useActorRef();

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {count}</p>
      <button onClick={() => someActorRef.send({ type: 'inc' })}>
        Increment
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Providing a similar machine:

```js
import { SomeMachineContext } from '../path/to/SomeMachineContext';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

function SomeComponent() {
  return (
    <SomeMachineContext.Provider
      logic={someMachine.provide({
        actions: {
          someAction: differentImplementation,
        },
        // ... More implementations
      })}
    >
      <SomeOtherComponent />
    </SomeMachineContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

### Shallow comparison

The default comparison is a strict reference comparison (`===`). If your selector returns non-primitive values, such as objects or arrays, you should keep this in mind and either return the same reference, or provide a shallow or deep comparator.

The `shallowEqual(...)` comparator function is available for shallow comparison:

```js
import { useSelector, shallowEqual } from '@xstate/react';

// ...

const selectUser = (state) => state.context.user;

const App = ({ actorRef }) => {
  // shallowEqual comparator is needed to compare the object, whose
  // reference might change despite the shallow object values being equal
  const user = useSelector(actorRef, selectUser, shallowEqual);

  // ...
};
```

With `useActorRef(...)`:

```js
import { useActorRef, useSelector } from '@xstate/react';
import { someMachine } from '../path/to/someMachine';

const selectCount = (state) => state.context.count;

const App = () => {
  const actorRef = useActorRef(someMachine);
  const count = useSelector(actorRef, selectCount);

  // ...
};
```

## Configuring machines

Existing machines can be customized by providing different implementations in `machine.provide(implementations)`.

Example: the `'fetchData'` actor ref and `'notifySuccess'` action are both configurable:

```js
const fetchMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'fetch',
  initial: 'idle',
  context: {
    data: undefined,
    error: undefined,
  },
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: { FETCH: 'loading' },
    },
    loading: {
      invoke: {
        src: 'fetchData',
        onDone: {
          target: 'success',
          actions: assign({
            data: ({ event }) => event.output,
          }),
        },
        onError: {
          target: 'failure',
          actions: assign({
            error: ({ event }) => event.error,
          }),
        },
      },
    },
    success: {
      entry: 'notifySuccess',
      type: 'final',
    },
    failure: {
      on: {
        RETRY: 'loading',
      },
    },
  },
});

const Fetcher = ({ onResolve }) => {
  const [state, send] = useMachine(
    fetchMachine.provide({
      actions: {
        notifySuccess: ({ context }) => onResolve(context.data),
      },
      actors: {
        fetchData: fromPromise(() =>
          fetch(`some/api/${e.query}`).then((res) => res.json()),
        ),
      },
    }),
  );

  switch (state.value) {
    case 'idle':
      return (
        <button onClick={() => send({ type: 'FETCH', query: 'something' })}>
          Search for something
        </button>
      );
    case 'loading':
      return <div>Searching...</div>;
    case 'success':
      return <div>Success! Data: {state.context.data}</div>;
    case 'failure':
      return (
        <>
          <p>{state.context.error.message}</p>
          <button onClick={() => send({ type: 'RETRY' })}>Retry</button>
        </>
      );
    default:
      return null;
  }
};
```

## Input

You can provide input to actors

## Matching states

When using [hierarchical](parent-states.mdx) and [parallel](parallel-states.mdx) machines, the state values will be objects, not strings. In this case, it is best to use [`state.matches(...)`](states.mdx#statematchesstatevalue).

We can do this with `if/else if/else` blocks:

```js
// ...
if (state.matches('idle')) {
  return /* ... */;
} else if (state.matches({ loading: 'user' })) {
  return /* ... */;
} else if (state.matches({ loading: 'friends' })) {
  return /* ... */;
} else {
  return null;
}
```

We can also continue to use `switch`, but we must make an adjustment to our approach. By setting the expression of the `switch` to `true`, we can use [`state.matches(...)`](states.mdx#statematchesstatevalue) as a predicate in each `case`:

```js
switch (true) {
  case state.matches('idle'):
    return /* ... */;
  case state.matches({ loading: 'user' }):
    return /* ... */;
  case state.matches({ loading: 'friends' }):
    return /* ... */;
  default:
    return null;
}
```

A ternary statement can also be considered, especially within rendered JSX:

```jsx
const Loader = () => {
  const [state, send] = useMachine(/* ... */);

  return (
    <div>
      {state.matches('idle') ? (
        <Loader.Idle />
      ) : state.matches({ loading: 'user' }) ? (
        <Loader.LoadingUser />
      ) : state.matches({ loading: 'friends' }) ? (
        <Loader.LoadingFriends />
      ) : null}
    </div>
  );
};
```

## Persisted and rehydrated State

You can persist and rehydrate state with `useMachine(...)` via `options.snapshot` in the 2nd argument:

```js
// ...

// Get the persisted state config object from somewhere, e.g. localStorage
const persistedState = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('some-persisted-state-key'));

const App = () => {
  const [state, send] = useMachine(someMachine, {
    snapshot: persistedState // provide persisted state config object here
  });

  // state will initially be that persisted state, not the machine’s initialState

  return (/* ... */)
}
```

## Actor refs

The `actorRef` created in `useMachine(machine)` can be referenced as the third returned value:

```js
//                  vvvvvvvv
const [state, send, actorRef] = useMachine(someMachine);
```

You can subscribe to that actor ref's state changes with the [`useEffect` hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html):

```js
// ...

useEffect(() => {
  const subscription = actorRef.subscribe((snapshot) => {
    // simple logging
    console.log(snapshot);
  });

  return subscription.unsubscribe;
}, [actorRef]); // note: actor ref should never change
```

## Resources

_Coming soon_
