versioned_docs/version-4/canvas-view-controls.mdx, before:

---
title: Canvas controls
---

We’ve recently added a canvas tools panel to help you with common tasks while designing and simulating state machines.

- <Sparkles size={18} /> [Generate with AI](generate-flow.mdx).
- <MousePointer2 size={18}/> Pointer mode, for dragging and selecting items on the canvas.
- <Hand size={18}/> Hand mode, for panning around the canvas.
- <PlusSquare size={18}/> Quick add menu, for adding a [state](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions) or a [note](annotations.mdx).

<p style={{ maxWidth: '300px' }}>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Canvas tools in Stately Studio, including a sparkles AI icon, pointer icon, hand icon, and plus icon which is focused and has an open menu for adding a state or a note."
    sources={{
      light: '/canvas-view-controls/canvas-tools.png',
      dark: '/canvas-view-controls/canvas-tools-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## View controls

You spend a lot of time on the canvas while designing and simulating state machines, so we’ve added view controls to help you navigate around your machines.

## Show/hide UI (user interface)

You can show and hide most of the Stately Studio user interface to help you focus on your machine.

1. Open the editor menu from the Stately icon in the top left of Stately Studio.
2. From the **View** submenu, toggle <Check size={18} /> **Show/hide UI** to show and hide the UI.

You can also use the <kbd>Command</kbd>/<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>.</kbd> keyboard shortcut to show and hide the UI.

:::tip

We’ve got [keyboard shortcuts](keyboard-shortcuts.mdx) for many of the view controls.

:::

Below is a preview of a machine _with_ the UI hidden.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Starter machine in Stately Studio. The only panel visible is the top left corner with the Stately logo and the machine name."
    sources={{
      light: '/canvas-view-controls/hide-ui.png',
      dark: '/canvas-view-controls/hide-ui-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

Below is a preview of a machine _without_ the UI hidden.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Starter machine in Stately Studio. All the panels are visible, including the top bar, view options, left sidebar, and right tool menu."
    sources={{
      light: '/canvas-view-controls/show-ui.png',
      dark: '/canvas-view-controls/show-ui-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## View controls

<p style={{ maxWidth: '300px' }}>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="View controls in Stately Studio, numbered and labeled by the list below."
    sources={{
      light: '/canvas-view-controls/view-controls.png',
      dark: '/canvas-view-controls/view-controls-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

1. **Undo**
2. **Redo**
3. **Zoom out**
4. Current zoom level. Press to open the zoom menu.
5. **Zoom in**

## Zoom menu and canvas context menu

The zoom menu and canvas context menu contain the same options:

- **Add [annotation](annotations.mdx)**
- **[Autolayout](autolayout.mdx)**
- **Zoom In**
- **Zoom out**
- **25%**: set zoom level to 25%
- **50%**: set zoom level to 50%
- **75%**: set zoom level to 75%
- **100%**: set zoom level to 100%
- **Fit to Content**: zoom to fit machine inside the currently visible canvas space

:::studio

[Find out more about light mode, dark mode, and translucency in user preferences](user-preferences.mdx).

:::

## Zoom to selection

You can use **Zoom to selection** from right-click on any transition or state on the canvas or in the <ListTree size={18} /> **Structure** panel.

Commit message:

Update canvas tools docs with new screenshots and concise howtos

versioned_docs/version-4/canvas-view-controls.mdx, after:

---
title: Canvas controls
---

We’ve recently added a canvas tools panel to help you with common tasks while designing and simulating state machines.

- <Sparkles size={18} /> [Generate with AI](generate-flow.mdx).
- <MousePointer2 size={18}/> Pointer mode, for dragging and selecting items on the canvas.
- <Hand size={18}/> Hand mode, for panning around the canvas.
- <PlusSquare size={18}/> Quick add menu, for adding a [state](/docs/editor-states-and-transitions) or a [note](annotations.mdx).

<p style={{ maxWidth: '300px' }}>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Canvas tools in Stately Studio, including a sparkles AI icon, pointer icon, hand icon, and plus icon which is focused and has an open menu for adding a state or a note."
    sources={{
      light: '/canvas-view-controls/canvas-tools.png',
      dark: '/canvas-view-controls/canvas-tools-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## View controls

You spend a lot of time on the canvas while designing and simulating state machines, so we’ve added view controls to help you navigate around your machines.

## Show/hide UI (user interface)

You can show and hide most of the editor’s user interface to help you focus on your machine.

1. Open the editor menu from the Stately icon in the top left of Stately Studio.
2. From the **View** submenu, toggle <Check size={18} /> **Show/hide UI** to show and hide the UI.

You can also use the <kbd>Command</kbd>/<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>.</kbd> keyboard shortcut to show and hide the UI.

:::tip

We’ve got [keyboard shortcuts](keyboard-shortcuts.mdx) for many of the view controls.

:::

Below is a preview of a machine _with_ the UI hidden.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Starter machine in Stately Studio. The only panel visible is the top left corner with the Stately logo and the machine name."
    sources={{
      light: '/canvas-view-controls/hide-ui.png',
      dark: '/canvas-view-controls/hide-ui-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

Below is a preview of a machine _without_ the UI hidden.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Starter machine in Stately Studio. All the panels are visible, including the top bar, view options, left sidebar, and right tool menu."
    sources={{
      light: '/canvas-view-controls/show-ui.png',
      dark: '/canvas-view-controls/show-ui-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## View controls

- <Undo size={18}/> Undo
- <Redo size={18}/> Redo
- <Scan size={18}/> Center in view: Center currently selected item or entire machine in view.
- Zoom in %: Current zoom level. Press to open the zoom menu.

:::studio

[Find out more about light mode, dark mode, and translucency in user preferences](user-preferences.mdx).

:::

## Zoom to selection

You can use **Zoom to selection** from right-click on any transition or state on the canvas or in the <ListTree size={18} /> **Structure** panel.
