versioned_docs/version-4/editor-actions-and-actors.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Actions and actors in Stately’s editor'
description: 'Learn how to use exit actions, entry actions, and transition actions, and invoke actors in Stately’s editor.'
---

# Actions and actors

While the statechart is running, it can execute other effects called actions. You can fire an action upon entry or exit of a state. Actions are “fire-and-forget effects”; once the machine has fired the action, it moves on and forgets the action. You can also fire actions on transitions. [Read more about actions](/docs/actions).

State machines can invoke actors as longer-running processes that can receive events, send events, and change their behavior based on the events they receive. You can invoke actors on entry to a state and stop on exit. [Read more about actors](/docs/actors).

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?code=834448b4-3b8b-4de9-8b2e-353fd2b342de&mode=design&machineId=000b2694-2267-413c-8477-988cc750d581" title="Demo of actions and actors"/>

## Add actions

- Select a state and use <Plus size={18} /> **Entry action** or **Exit action**.
- Select a transition and use <Plus size={18} /> **Action**.
- Select a state or transition, open the <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu, and use the <Plus size={18} /> **Effect** or <Plus size={18} /> **Action**  button and choose **Add entry action**, **Add exit action**, or **Add action**.

Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the **Action** panel and add custom action parameters. Actions are created as custom actions by default, but you can also use [XState built-in actions](#xstate-built-in-actions).

To remove an action, use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key, *right-click* and choose **Delete**, or use the <Trash size={18} /> delete icon button in the **Details** panel.

### XState built-in actions

You can choose from the following built-in XState actions, which will be formatted in your [exported code](export-as-code.mdx). The options are:

- [assign](/docs/actions/#assign-action): assigns data to the state context.
- [raise](/docs/actions/#raise-action): raises an event that is received by the same machine.
- [log](/docs/actions/#log-action): an easy way to log messages to the console.
- [sendTo](/docs/actions/#send-to-action): sends an event to a specific actor.
- [stop](/docs/actions/#stop-action): stops a child actor.

To add a built-in action, first [add an action](#add-actions). [Read more about actions in XState](/docs/actions).

## Add invoked actors

You can invoke multiple actors on a single state. Top-level final states cannot have invoked actors. [Read more about invoking actors](/docs/invoke).

<EmbedMachine
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135"
  name="video player"
/>

In the video player above, the *startVideo* actor is invoked when the video player is in the *Opened* state.

### Invoke actors on a state

- Select a state and use <PlayCircle size={18} /> **Invoke**.
- Select a state, open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu, and use the <Plus size={18} /> **Effect** button and choose **Add invoked actor**.

Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the **Invoked actor** panel and enter the actor’s source logic and ID. The ID can be used with the [`sendTo` or `stop` actions](#xstate-built-in-actions) to stop and send events to the actor.

To remove an actor, use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key, *right-click* and choose **Delete**, or use the <Trash size={18} /> delete icon button in the **Details** panel.

#### Invoke done and invoke error events

**Invoke done events** and **invoke error events** transition from a state once its invocation has been completed or returns an error. The source state must have an invoked actor to create an invoke done or invoke error event.

- Select the state with an invoked actor and create a new transition from that state. The first new transition will be created as an invoke done event. 
- Subsequent new transitions will be created as invoke error events.

To change an invoke done or invoke error event back into a regular transition, Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot menu or *right-click* the transition, and from **Event type**, choose **Always**.

### Spawning actors in Stately’s editor

_Coming soon_

Commit message:

Update Studio docs for sources, params, and input releases (#358)
* Add ids to headings on pricing page so they’re linkable

Closes STA-6002

* Remove V5 beta text from pricing page

Closes STA-5991

* Add changelog to docs footer links

Closes STA-4474

* Fix typo

* Update Twitter to X logo and update link text in footer

Closes STA-4257

* Fix narrow sidebar on blog

Closes STA-5993

* Stop nav dropping to second row on middling viewports

* Update docs for sources, params and input releases

versioned_docs/version-4/editor-actions-and-actors.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Actions and actors in Stately’s editor'
description: 'Learn how to use exit actions, entry actions, and transition actions, and invoke actors in Stately’s editor.'
---

# Actions and actors

While the statechart is running, it can execute other effects called actions. You can fire an action upon entry or exit of a state. Actions are “fire-and-forget effects”; once the machine has fired the action, it moves on and forgets the action. You can also fire actions on transitions. [Read more about actions](/docs/actions).

State machines can invoke actors as longer-running processes that can receive events, send events, and change their behavior based on the events they receive. You can invoke actors on entry to a state and stop on exit. [Read more about actors](/docs/actors).

<EmbedMachine embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/c447d996-cef1-421d-a422-8be695668764?code=834448b4-3b8b-4de9-8b2e-353fd2b342de&mode=design&machineId=000b2694-2267-413c-8477-988cc750d581" title="Demo of actions and actors"/>

## Add actions

- Select a state or transition and use <Zap size={18} /> **Action**.
- Select a state and use <Plus size={18} /> **Entry action** or **Exit action**.
- Select a state or transition, open the <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu, and use the <Plus size={18} /> **Effect** or <Plus size={18} /> **Action**  button and choose **Add entry action**, **Add exit action**, or **Add action**.

Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the <Code size={18} /> **Sources** panel and add custom implementation code. Actions are created as custom actions by default, but you can also use [XState built-in actions](#xstate-built-in-actions).

To remove an action, use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key, *right-click* and choose **Delete**, or use the <Trash size={18} /> delete icon button in the **Details** panel.

### Add action parameters

You can add action parameters by selecting the action and using add <Plus size={18} /> **parameter**.

## Add invoked actors

You can invoke multiple actors on a single state. Top-level final states cannot have invoked actors. [Read more about invoking actors](/docs/invoke).

<EmbedMachine
  embedURL="https://stately.ai/registry/editor/embed/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=66f77051-089e-4b0a-9fa9-42e1f7598135"
  name="video player"
/>

In the video player above, the *startVideo* actor is invoked when the video player is in the *Opened* state.

### Invoke actors on a state

- Select a state and use <PlayCircle size={18} /> **Invoke**.
- Select a state, open the state <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu, and use the <Plus size={18} /> **Effect** button and choose **Add invoked actor**.

Use the <Edit size={18} /> edit icon button to open the <Code size={18}/ > **Sources** panel and enter the actor’s source logic. 

Provide your actor with an ID so it can be used with the [`sendTo` or `stop` actions](#xstate-built-in-actions) to stop and send events to the actor. You can add actor input by selecting the actor and using add <Plus size={18} /> **input property**.

To remove an actor, use the <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key, *right-click* and choose **Delete**, or use the <Trash size={18} /> delete icon button in the **Details** panel.

#### Invoke done and invoke error events

**Invoke done events** and **invoke error events** transition from a state once its invocation has been completed or returns an error. The source state must have an invoked actor to create an invoke done or invoke error event.

- Select the state with an invoked actor and create a new transition from that state. The first new transition will be created as an invoke done event. 
- Subsequent new transitions will be created as invoke error events.

To change an invoke done or invoke error event back into a regular transition, Use the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot menu or *right-click* the transition, and from **Event type**, choose **Always**.

### XState built-in actions

You can use the following built-in XState actions from the logic templates in the <Code size={18}/> **[Sources](sources.mdx)** panel, which will be formatted in your [exported code](export-as-code.mdx). The options are:

- [assign](/docs/actions/#assign-action): assigns data to the state context.
- [raise](/docs/actions/#raise-action): raises an event that is received by the same machine.
- [log](/docs/actions/#log-action): an easy way to log messages to the console.
- [sendTo](/docs/actions/#send-to-action): sends an event to a specific actor.
- [stop](/docs/actions/#stop-action): stops a child actor.

- [Read more about actions in XState](/docs/actions).
- [Read more about actors in XState](/docs/actors).

### Spawning actors in Stately’s editor

_Coming soon_
