versioned_docs/version-4/live-simulation.mdx, before:

---
title: Live Simulation Mode
---

# Live Simulation Mode

Live simulation mode helps you share your simulated machine with your team without screen sharing or screenshots. Share the generated live simulation link, and your team can view your simulation in real-time and even trigger events themselves.

:::studio

Live simulation is a Pro feature of the Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](/studio-pro-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try the Pro plan with a 7-day free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Two views of the Studio, left is the user sharing the Live simulation and right is the user who joins the Live simulation."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-side-by-side.jpg',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-side-by-side.jpg',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Simulate your machine with others

You must be signed in to start a live simulation. There are two views in Stately Studio’s editor: Design mode and Simulate mode.

1. Select the **Simulate** mode from the center of the visual editor.

:::tip

When you’re in **Simulate** mode, your current state and next available events are highlighted in blue to simulate the flow of your machine. Click the available events to transition through states and review your logic.

:::

2. Use the **Live mode** button in the bottom left corner to reveal the **Live simulation** options.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Simulate mode is selected in the center menu and now the machine can not be edited."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-menu.png',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-menu-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

3. Choose **Start a live simulation** to start a live simulation session.

When your machine is in live simulation mode, the **Live simulation panel** will display in the bottom left corner with a six-character unique code (for example: 3KNYII) along with **Copy link** and **Stop** buttons. The current state and next events will also be highlighted in orange.

4. Give the link or unique session code to whoever you want to share your live simulation session with.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="When selecting Start a live simulation, you are actively sharing the machine and others can access the same simulation with a custom generated link."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-start.png',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-start-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Join a Live simulation using a unique session code

1. Select the **Simulate** mode from the center of the visual editor.
2. Use the **Live mode** button in the bottom left corner to reveal the **Live simulation** options.
3. Choose **Join a Live simulation** to join an existing live simulation mode session.
4. Enter the unique session code you’ve been provided into the text box.
5. Select the **Join** button to join the session.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Joining a Live simulation session will all you to select the states or watch them transition to other states with others in the session."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-join.png',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-join-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Join a Live simulation using a unique session URL

Paste the URL shared with you into your browser address bar and hit enter to join the Live simulation session.

Commit message:

Update docs for recent changes to UI (#309)
* Update docs for export to code/StackBlitz/CodeSandbox in Studio

Closes STA-4965, STA-4959, STA-4950, STA-5191

* Update Simulate mode docs for recent UI changes

* Document state assets

Closes STA-5664

* Update wording for admonitions on paid feature pages

Specify that free generations are available for generate flow
Closes STA-5296

* Add assets to v4 docs and sidebars

* Update projects docs for latest changes to UI

* Add info on zoom to selection to docs

* Add info about moving projects and machines to projects page

Closes STA-5321

* Update versions docs for latest changes to UI

Closes STA-5240

* Clarify roles required to move machines

* Simplify import from code page and remove refs to Machines list title

* Fix Lucide fork icon

* Fix URLs

* Update docs/discover.mdx

Co-authored-by: David Khourshid <davidkpiano@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: David Khourshid <davidkpiano@gmail.com>

versioned_docs/version-4/live-simulation.mdx, after:

---
title: Live Simulation Mode
---

# Live Simulation Mode

Live simulation mode helps you share your simulated machine with your team without screen sharing or screenshots. Share the generated live simulation link, and your team can view your simulation in real-time and even trigger events themselves.

:::studio

Live simulation is a paid feature of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Two views of the Studio, left is the user sharing the Live simulation and right is the user who joins the Live simulation."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-side-by-side.jpg',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-side-by-side.jpg',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Simulate your machine with others

You must be signed in to start a live simulation. There are two views in Stately Studio’s editor: Design mode and Simulate mode.

1. Select the **Simulate** mode from the center of the visual editor.

:::tip

When you’re in **Simulate** mode, your current state and next available events are highlighted in blue to simulate the flow of your machine. Click the available events to transition through states and review your logic.

:::

2. Use the **Live mode** button in the bottom left corner to reveal the **Live simulation** options.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Simulate mode is selected in the center menu and now the machine can not be edited."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-menu.png',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-menu-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

3. Choose **Start a live simulation** to start a live simulation session.

When your machine is in live simulation mode, the **Live simulation panel** will display in the bottom left corner with a six-character unique code (for example: 3KNYII) along with **Copy link** and **Stop** buttons. The current state and next events will also be highlighted in orange.

4. Give the link or unique session code to whoever you want to share your live simulation session with.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="When selecting Start a live simulation, you are actively sharing the machine and others can access the same simulation with a custom generated link."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-start.png',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-start-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Join a Live simulation using a unique session code

1. Select the **Simulate** mode from the center of the visual editor.
2. Use the **Live mode** button in the bottom left corner to reveal the **Live simulation** options.
3. Choose **Join a Live simulation** to join an existing live simulation mode session.
4. Enter the unique session code you’ve been provided into the text box.
5. Select the **Join** button to join the session.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Joining a Live simulation session will all you to select the states or watch them transition to other states with others in the session."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-join.png',
      dark: '/assets/live-sim/live-sim-join-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Join a Live simulation using a unique session URL

Paste the URL shared with you into your browser address bar and hit enter to join the Live simulation session.
