versioned_docs/version-4/lock-machines.mdx, before:

---
title: Lock machines
---

You can lock a machine anytime to prevent accidental edits. Locked machines have a <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** status displayed in the editor’s top bar.

Hover over the <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** text to view who locked the machine and when.

:::studio

Locking machines is a premium feature of Stately Studio. You can try Stately Studio’s premium plans with a free trial. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade your existing plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

Locking a machine prevents you, or anyone else on your team, from the following:

- Editing the machine
- Deleting the machine
- Renaming the machine
- [Importing code](import-from-code.mdx) to replace the machine
- [Restoring a past version](versions.mdx) of the machine

If somebody else is viewing or editing the machine when it is locked, their changes will not be saved, and they will be notified that the machine is now locked.

## How to lock and unlock a machine

From the editor menu, go to **Machine** > <Unlock size={18} /> **Lock machine** / <Lock size={18} /> **Unlock machine**.

From the machine’s <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel, use the <Unlock size={18} /> Lock machine / <Lock size={18} /> Unlock machine icon button.

## Team roles and locking machines

All team members can view locked machines. Only team owners, Admins, and Editors can lock and unlock machines.

| Capability              | Owner  | Admin  | Editor | Viewer |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| View locked machine     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Lock and unlock machine | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |

Commit message:

Add mention of the lock icon in the project machine list and tweak wording

versioned_docs/version-4/lock-machines.mdx, after:

---
title: Lock machines
---

You can lock a machine anytime to prevent accidental edits. Locked machines have a <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** status displayed in the editor’s top bar. They also have a lock icon in the project’s machine list in the left panel.

Hover over the <Lock size={18} /> **Locked** text to view who locked the machine and when.

:::studio

Locking machines is a premium feature of Stately Studio. You can try Stately Studio’s premium plans with a free trial. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade your existing plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

Locking a machine prevents you, or anyone else on your team, from the following:

- Editing the machine
- Deleting the machine
- Renaming the machine
- [Importing code](import-from-code.mdx) to replace the machine
- [Restoring a past version](versions.mdx) of the machine

If somebody else is viewing or editing the machine when it is locked, their changes will not be saved, and they will be notified that the machine is now locked.

## How to lock and unlock a machine

From the editor menu, go to **Machine** > <Unlock size={18} /> **Lock machine** / <Lock size={18} /> **Unlock machine**.

From the machine’s <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel, use the <Unlock size={18} /> Lock machine / <Lock size={18} /> Unlock machine icon button.

If the machine is already locked, you can unlock it by clicking on the **Locked** button in the editor’s top bar and then confirm that you wish to unlock the machine.

## Team roles and locking machines

All team members can view locked machines. Only team owners, Admins, and Editors can lock and unlock machines.

| Capability              | Owner  | Admin  | Editor | Viewer |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| View locked machine     | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes |
| Lock and unlock machine | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 🚫 No  |
