versioned_docs/version-4/projects.mdx, before:

---
title: Projects
---

A project is a collection of machines that helps you organize your personal machines and collaborate with others on your application logic.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio My Projects page showing three pages of projects along with each project’s name, number of machines, and whether the project is public, private, or unlisted."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/projects/my-projects.png',
      dark: '/assets/projects/my-projects-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

You can access your projects from **My Projects** at the left of Stately Studio’s top bar when you’re signed into Stately Studio. **My Projects** lists your personal projects and is one of the locations where you can create new projects.

When you select a project, the first machine in the project will open in Stately Studio’s editor. The other machines in your project are accessible from the **Machines** list in the left drawer menu.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio’s editor showing the Machines list in the left drawer for Stately Studio Tutorials project. The selected machine is called ‘Parent states.’"
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/projects/machines-list.png',
      dark: '/assets/projects/machines-list-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Create a new project

You can create a new project when you first save a machine or from the **Create project** button in [**My Projects**](/#my-projects). You must be signed in to Stately Studio to access **My Projects** and shared team projects, or to create new projects.

### Create a new project from **My Projects**

Open **My Projects** from the link at the left of Stately Studio’s top bar and use the <PlusSquare size={18}/> **Create project** button.

### Create a new project from Stately Studio’s editor

The **Save** button will save your machine or prompt you to sign into Stately Studio before saving. Your project will have the same name as your current machine name.

## Change a project’s visibility

A project can be **public**, **unlisted**, or **private**. If the project is a shared team project, only team members with the **Owner** or **Admin** roles can change its visibility.

:::studio

The project’s visibility is display in the lower left corner of the canvas.

:::

- Public projects are visible to everyone. They are discoverable on the [Discover](discover.mdx) page and listed on your profile page.
- Unlisted projects are visible to everyone with the project’s URL but are not findable on the Discover page or listed on your profile page.
- Private projects are only visible to you and the team that owns the project.

Use the **Share** button in Stately Studio’s top bar and toggle the project’s visibility between **public**, **unlisted**, or **private** from the dropdown menu in the Share dialog.

:::studio

Unlisted and Private projects are a paid feature of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

## Favorite a project

You can favorite your own projects and other people’s projects. Favoriting a project gives you easy access to these projects in the future, as your **Favorites** are listed in the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace. You might want to favorite projects you find inspiring or educational so that you can refer back to them later.

You can favorite a project from **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects.

- Choose **Add to favorites** from the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.
- Find your **Favorites** in the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.

### Remove a project from your favorites

You can remove a project from your favorites from **Favorites**, **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects by choosing **Remove from favorites** from the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.

## Move a project to a different team

You can move a project to a different team from the **Share** dialog. You can only move a project between teams if you have the [**Owner** role](teams.mdx#owner-role) on both teams.

## Move a machine to a different project

You can move a machine to a different team or to your personal projects

Commit message:

Clarify roles required to move machines

versioned_docs/version-4/projects.mdx, after:

---
title: Projects
---

A project is a collection of machines that helps you organize your personal machines and collaborate with others on your application logic.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio My Projects page showing three pages of projects along with each project’s name, number of machines, and whether the project is public, private, or unlisted."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/projects/my-projects.png',
      dark: '/assets/projects/my-projects-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

You can access your projects from **My Projects** at the left of Stately Studio’s top bar when you’re signed into Stately Studio. **My Projects** lists your personal projects and is one of the locations where you can create new projects.

When you select a project, the first machine in the project will open in Stately Studio’s editor. The other machines in your project are accessible from the **Machines** list in the left drawer menu.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Stately Studio’s editor showing the Machines list in the left drawer for Stately Studio Tutorials project. The selected machine is called ‘Parent states.’"
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/projects/machines-list.png',
      dark: '/assets/projects/machines-list-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Create a new project

You can create a new project when you first save a machine or from the **Create project** button in [**My Projects**](/#my-projects). You must be signed in to Stately Studio to access **My Projects** and shared team projects, or to create new projects.

### Create a new project from **My Projects**

Open **My Projects** from the link at the left of Stately Studio’s top bar and use the <PlusSquare size={18}/> **Create project** button.

### Create a new project from Stately Studio’s editor

The **Save** button will save your machine or prompt you to sign into Stately Studio before saving. Your project will have the same name as your current machine name.

## Change a project’s visibility

A project can be **public**, **unlisted**, or **private**. If the project is a shared team project, only team members with the **Owner** or **Admin** roles can change its visibility.

:::studio

The project’s visibility is display in the lower left corner of the canvas.

:::

- Public projects are visible to everyone. They are discoverable on the [Discover](discover.mdx) page and listed on your profile page.
- Unlisted projects are visible to everyone with the project’s URL but are not findable on the Discover page or listed on your profile page.
- Private projects are only visible to you and the team that owns the project.

Use the **Share** button in Stately Studio’s top bar and toggle the project’s visibility between **public**, **unlisted**, or **private** from the dropdown menu in the Share dialog.

:::studio

Unlisted and Private projects are a paid feature of Stately Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try our paid plans with a free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

## Favorite a project

You can favorite your own projects and other people’s projects. Favoriting a project gives you easy access to these projects in the future, as your **Favorites** are listed in the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace. You might want to favorite projects you find inspiring or educational so that you can refer back to them later.

You can favorite a project from **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects.

- Choose **Add to favorites** from the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.
- Find your **Favorites** in the left sidebar of Stately Studio’s workspace.

### Remove a project from your favorites

You can remove a project from your favorites from **Favorites**, **My Projects**, **Discover**, and team projects by choosing **Remove from favorites** from the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the project’s name.

## Move a project to a different team

You can move a project to a different team from the **Share** dialog. You can only move a project between teams if you have the [**Owner** role](teams.mdx#owner-role) on both teams.

## Move a machine to a different project

You can move a machine to a different team or to your personal projects from the <MoreHorizontal size={18} /> triple dot contextual menu alongside the machine’s name in the machines list. You can only move a machine between projects if you have the [**Owner** role](teams.mdx#owner-role), [**Admin** role](teams.mdx#admin-role), or [**Editor** role](teams.mdx#editor-role) in both projects.
