versioned_docs/version-4/studio-enterprise-plan.mdx, before:

---
title: Stately Studio Enterprise Plan
---

# Stately Studio Enterprise Plan

Upgrade to an Enterprise account to enjoy all of our paid plan features as well as features designed to integrate Stately Studio with the specific needs of your organization, including custom integrations, greater security, and top-tier support. An enterprise account includes the following features:

## Enterprise features

- Everything from the [Team](studio-team-plan.mdx) plan
- Unlimited [generated flows](generate-flow.mdx)
- Flexible hosting
- Dedicated priority support
- Custom server locations
- Single sign-on (SSO)
- Audit logs
- Embed Stately in your own apps
- Custom effect collections (actions, actors, and more)
- Prioritized feature requests
- A custom plan tailored to the requirements of your organization

We have many more team features coming soon. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://feedback.stately.ai).

<p>
  <a href="mailto:sales@stately.com?subject=I'm interested in the Stately Studio Enterprise plan">
    Email the Stately team
  </a>{' '}
  for a custom plan tailored to the requirements of your organization.
</p>

:::studio

We offer a **free trial** on all of our paid plans so you can explore how our Enterprise features work for you.

:::

Commit message:

Add section on why pay for a premium plan
Closes STA-5771

versioned_docs/version-4/studio-enterprise-plan.mdx, after:

---
title: Stately Studio Enterprise Plan
---

# Stately Studio Enterprise Plan

Upgrade to an Enterprise account to enjoy all of our paid plan features as well as features designed to integrate Stately Studio with the specific needs of your organization, including custom integrations, greater security, and top-tier support. An enterprise account includes the following features:

## Enterprise features

- Everything from the [Team](studio-team-plan.mdx) plan
- Unlimited [generated flows](generate-flow.mdx)
- Flexible hosting
- Dedicated priority support
- Custom server locations
- Single sign-on (SSO)
- Audit logs
- Embed Stately in your own apps
- Custom effect collections (actions, actors, and more)
- Prioritized feature requests
- A custom plan tailored to the requirements of your organization

We have many more team features coming soon. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://feedback.stately.ai).

<p>
  <a href="mailto:sales@stately.com?subject=I'm interested in the Stately Studio Enterprise plan">
    Email the Stately team
  </a>{' '}
  for a custom plan tailored to the requirements of your organization.
</p>

:::info

## Why pay for a premium plan? 

Our premium plans include private and unlisted projects, AI assistance with Stately AI, live workflows with Stately Sky, useful features for team management and much more. Your subscription also helps support the Stately team as we build and improve Stately Studio and XState.

:::
