versioned_docs/version-4/studio-pro-plan.mdx, before:

---
title: Stately Studio Pro Plan
---

# Stately Studio Pro Plan

[Upgrade to a Pro account](https://stately.ai/pricing) to create more expressive flows, work faster with AI assistance, and achieve greater flexibility in editing with version control. A Pro account includes the following features:

## Pro features

- Everything from the [Community plan](studio-community-plan.mdx)
- [Private and unlisted projects](/docs/projects/#change-a-projects-visibility)
- [Generate and modify using AI](generate-flow.mdx)
- [Deploy live workflows](/docs/stately-sky-getting-started)
- [Generate React UIs](generate-react.mdx)
- [Version history](versions.mdx)
- [Import from GitHub](import-from-github.mdx)
- [Live simulation mode](live-simulation.mdx)
- [State assets](assets.mdx)
- [Lock machines](lock-machines.mdx)
- [Generate test paths](generate-test-paths.mdx)
- [Color states and transitions](colors.mdx)
- [Export flows to markdown](export-as-code.mdx)
- [Export flows as stories](export-as-code.mdx)
- [Priority support](/docs/studio-pro-plan/#priority-support)
- GitHub Sync (coming soon!)
- Actors (coming soon!)

We have many more pro features coming soon. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://feedback.stately.ai).

We offer a **free trial** on all of our paid plans so you can explore how our Pro features work for you.

:::studio

**Stately Studio will always be free to our Community users** on the free plan, and we will make many future features available on every plan.

:::

## Pro accounts

You can choose between monthly or yearly billing on all of our paid plans.

:::studio

### Pro features as a team member

If you are a team member of another user’s [team](teams.mdx), you also have access to [premium features](studio-pro-plan.mdx)! However, if you want to create your own teams, you need to [upgrade to your own Team subscription](/upgrade.mdx).

:::

### How to sign up

[Sign up for a Stately Studio account from the sign up page](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or using the **Sign in** button in [the editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Read more about [signing up for the Stately Studio](sign-up.mdx).

### How to upgrade

You can [upgrade](upgrade.mdx) when you’re signed into the Stately Studio using the **Upgrade** button in the editor’s footer.

## Priority support

When you sign up for a Pro plan, you will receive an email with information on accessing priority support from the Stately team.

## Canceling your Pro plan

You can cancel your Pro plan at any time. When you cancel your Pro plan:

- Your projects become public.
- You will no longer have access to other Pro features like deploying live workflows with Stately Sky, AI generation features, saving machine versions, etc.

:::info

## Why pay for a premium plan?

Our premium plans include private and unlisted projects, AI assistance with Stately AI, live workflows with Stately Sky, useful features for team management and much more. Your subscription also helps support the Stately team as we build and improve Stately Studio and XState.

:::

Commit message:

Specify Editor or Admin (non-viewer) as team members who have access to premium features.

versioned_docs/version-4/studio-pro-plan.mdx, after:

---
title: Stately Studio Pro Plan
---

# Stately Studio Pro Plan

[Upgrade to a Pro account](https://stately.ai/pricing) to create more expressive flows, work faster with AI assistance, and achieve greater flexibility in editing with version control. A Pro account includes the following features:

## Pro features

- Everything from the [Community plan](studio-community-plan.mdx)
- [Private and unlisted projects](/docs/projects/#change-a-projects-visibility)
- [Generate and modify using AI](generate-flow.mdx)
- [Deploy live workflows](/docs/stately-sky-getting-started)
- [Generate React UIs](generate-react.mdx)
- [Version history](versions.mdx)
- [Import from GitHub](import-from-github.mdx)
- [Live simulation mode](live-simulation.mdx)
- [State assets](assets.mdx)
- [Lock machines](lock-machines.mdx)
- [Generate test paths](generate-test-paths.mdx)
- [Color states and transitions](colors.mdx)
- [Export flows to markdown](export-as-code.mdx)
- [Export flows as stories](export-as-code.mdx)
- [Priority support](/docs/studio-pro-plan/#priority-support)
- GitHub Sync (coming soon!)
- Actors (coming soon!)

We have many more pro features coming soon. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://feedback.stately.ai).

We offer a **free trial** on all of our paid plans so you can explore how our Pro features work for you.

:::studio

**Stately Studio will always be free to our Community users** on the free plan, and we will make many future features available on every plan.

:::

## Pro accounts

You can choose between monthly or yearly billing on all of our paid plans.

:::studio

### Pro features as a team member

If you are a team member of another user’s [team](teams.mdx), with the role of Editor or Admin, you also have access to [premium features](studio-pro-plan.mdx)! However, if you want to create your own teams, you need to [upgrade to your own Team subscription](/upgrade.mdx).

:::

### How to sign up

[Sign up for a Stately Studio account from the sign up page](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or using the **Sign in** button in [the editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Read more about [signing up for the Stately Studio](sign-up.mdx).

### How to upgrade

You can [upgrade](upgrade.mdx) when you’re signed into the Stately Studio using the **Upgrade** button in the editor’s footer.

## Priority support

When you sign up for a Pro plan, you will receive an email with information on accessing priority support from the Stately team.

## Canceling your Pro plan

You can cancel your Pro plan at any time. When you cancel your Pro plan:

- Your projects become public.
- You will no longer have access to other Pro features like deploying live workflows with Stately Sky, AI generation features, saving machine versions, etc.

:::info

## Why pay for a premium plan?

Our premium plans include private and unlisted projects, AI assistance with Stately AI, live workflows with Stately Sky, useful features for team management and much more. Your subscription also helps support the Stately team as we build and improve Stately Studio and XState.

:::
