versioned_docs/version-4/studio-team-plan.mdx, before:

---
title: Stately Studio Team plan
---

# Stately Studio Team plan

[Upgrade to a Team account](https://stately.ai/pricing) to enjoy all of our Pro features as well as many features designed to help you collaborate with your team, on any number of projects. A Team account includes the following features:

## Team features

- Everything from the [Pro](studio-pro-plan.mdx) plan
- Create one or more [teams](teams.mdx), based on your needs
- [Private, shared team projects](/docs/projects/#change-a-projects-visibility)
- Add up to 10 [team members](/docs/teams/#invite-new-members-to-a-team)
- [Team admins and editors](/docs/teams/#admin-role)
- Grant [view-only access](/docs/teams/#viewer-role) to team projects
- Live collaboration (coming soon!)

We have many more team features coming soon. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://feedback.stately.ai).

We offer a **free trial** on all of our paid plans so you can explore how our Team features work for you and your team.

:::studio

**Stately Studio will always be free to our Community users** on the free plan, and we will make many future features available on every plan.

:::

## Team accounts

You can choose between monthly or yearly billing on all of our paid plans.

:::studio

### Pro features as a team member

If you are a team member of another user’s [team](teams.mdx), you also have access to [premium features](/docs/studio-pro-plan.mdx)! However, if you want to create your own teams, you need to [upgrade to your own Pro or Team subscription](upgrade.mdx).

:::

### How to sign up

[Sign up for a Stately Studio account from the sign up page](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or using the **Sign in** button in [the editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Read more about [signing up for the Stately Studio](sign-up.mdx).

### How to upgrade

You can [upgrade](upgrade.mdx) when you’re signed into the Stately Studio using the **Upgrade** button in the editor’s footer.

## Priority support

When you sign up for a paid plan, you will receive an email with information on accessing priority support from the Stately team.

## Canceling your Team plan

You can cancel your Team plan at any time. When you cancel your Team plan:

- Your projects become read-only.
- New team projects can no longer be created.
- Team members can no longer be added to your team.
- The account owner can delete the teams.
- The account owner can move projects from their teams to My Projects where they will be come public unless the account owner has a Pro subscription.
- Team members will lose access to Pro features unless they have purchased their own Pro.subscription.

:::info

## Why pay for a premium plan?

Our premium plans include private and unlisted projects, AI assistance with Stately AI, live workflows with Stately Sky, useful features for team management and much more. Your subscription also helps support the Stately team as we build and improve Stately Studio and XState.

:::

Commit message:

Add links to Admin and Editor role docs and update Team Plan pages

versioned_docs/version-4/studio-team-plan.mdx, after:

---
title: Stately Studio Team plan
---

# Stately Studio Team plan

[Upgrade to a Team account](https://stately.ai/pricing) to enjoy all of our Pro features as well as many features designed to help you collaborate with your team, on any number of projects. A Team account includes the following features:

## Team features

- Everything from the [Pro](studio-pro-plan.mdx) plan
- Create one or more [teams](teams.mdx), based on your needs
- [Private, shared team projects](/docs/projects/#change-a-projects-visibility)
- Add up to 10 [team members](/docs/teams/#invite-new-members-to-a-team)
- [Team admins and editors](/docs/teams/#admin-role)
- Grant [view-only access](/docs/teams/#viewer-role) to team projects
- Live collaboration (coming soon!)

We have many more team features coming soon. Request features and check out what we’ve got planned on [our roadmap](https://feedback.stately.ai).

We offer a **free trial** on all of our paid plans so you can explore how our Team features work for you and your team.

:::studio

**Stately Studio will always be free to our Community users** on the free plan, and we will make many future features available on every plan.

:::

## Team accounts

You can choose between monthly or yearly billing on all of our paid plans.

:::studio

### Pro features as a team member

If you are a team member of another user’s [team](teams.mdx), with the role of [Admin](teams.mdx#admin-role) or [Editor](teams.mdx#editor-role), you also have access to [premium features](/docs/studio-pro-plan.mdx)! However, if you want to create your own teams, you need to [upgrade to your own Pro or Team subscription](upgrade.mdx).

:::

### How to sign up

[Sign up for a Stately Studio account from the sign up page](https://stately.ai/registry/login) or using the **Sign in** button in [the editor](https://stately.ai/editor)’s top bar.

Read more about [signing up for the Stately Studio](sign-up.mdx).

### How to upgrade

You can [upgrade](upgrade.mdx) when you’re signed into the Stately Studio using the **Upgrade** button in the editor’s footer.

## Priority support

When you sign up for a paid plan, you will receive an email with information on accessing priority support from the Stately team.

## Canceling your Team plan

You can cancel your Team plan at any time. When you cancel your Team plan:

- Your projects become read-only.
- New team projects can no longer be created.
- Team members can no longer be added to your team.
- The account owner can delete the teams.
- The account owner can move projects from their teams to My Projects where they will be come public unless the account owner has a Pro subscription.
- Team members will lose access to Pro features unless they have purchased their own Pro.subscription.

:::info

## Why pay for a premium plan?

Our premium plans include private and unlisted projects, AI assistance with Stately AI, live workflows with Stately Sky, useful features for team management and much more. Your subscription also helps support the Stately team as we build and improve Stately Studio and XState.

:::
