versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Delayed (after) transitions
description: 'Delayed transitions (also known as after transitions) are transitions that only happen after a specified interval of time.'
---

**Delayed transitions** are transitions that only happen after a specified interval of time. If another event happens before the end of the timer, the transition doesn’t complete. Delayed transitions are handy if you need to build timeouts and intervals into your application logic.

Delayed transitions are labeled “after” and often referred to as “after” transitions.

:::video

Watch our [“Delayed (after) transitions” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RE_eazRhrw&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=12) (1m17s).

:::

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=5671366b-05cf-43f5-a09a-b88373ea27c1).

In a video player, we might want the video to be *Closed* out of fullscreen mode a few seconds after the video has *Stopped*, instead of closing the fullscreen mode suddenly as soon as the video is stopped. The eventless transition above transitions from the *Stopped* state to the *Closed* state after 5 seconds.

### Make an event into a delayed transition

Delayed transitions have a default time interval of 500ms (0.5 seconds).

#### On the canvas

1. Select the event you want to replace with a delayed transition.
1. Right-click the event to open the edit menu.
1. From the **Event type** options, choose **After** to turn the event into a delayed transition.

#### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. From the **Event type** dropdown menu, choose **After** to turn the event into a delayed transition.

#### Specify delay time

Your delay time interval will be displayed in a human-readable format on hover. For example, 15000ms will be displayed as 15 seconds.

1. Select the delayed transition.
2. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **Delay** text input to specify the interval in milliseconds.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use delayed transitions in XState?

Find out [more about delayed transitions in XState](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/after.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Delayed (after) transitions
description: 'Delayed transitions (also known as after transitions) are transitions that only happen after a specified interval of time.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about delayed (after) transitions in XState v5](/docs/delayed-transitions).

:::

**Delayed transitions** are transitions that only happen after a specified interval of time. If another event happens before the end of the timer, the transition doesn’t complete. Delayed transitions are handy if you need to build timeouts and intervals into your application logic.

Delayed transitions are labeled “after” and often referred to as “after” transitions.

:::video

Watch our [“Delayed (after) transitions” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RE_eazRhrw&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=12) (1m17s).

:::

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s a delayed transition from the Stopped state back to the Closed state after 5 seconds."
    sources={{
      light:
        '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/delayed-transitions/delayed-transitions-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

[View this machine in the Stately Studio](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/e13bef2b-bb13-4465-96ac-0bc25340688e?machineId=5671366b-05cf-43f5-a09a-b88373ea27c1).

In a video player, we might want the video to be *Closed* out of fullscreen mode a few seconds after the video has *Stopped*, instead of closing the fullscreen mode suddenly as soon as the video is stopped. The eventless transition above transitions from the *Stopped* state to the *Closed* state after 5 seconds.

### Make an event into a delayed transition

Delayed transitions have a default time interval of 500ms (0.5 seconds).

#### On the canvas

1. Select the event you want to replace with a delayed transition.
1. Right-click the event to open the edit menu.
1. From the **Event type** options, choose **After** to turn the event into a delayed transition.

#### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. From the **Event type** dropdown menu, choose **After** to turn the event into a delayed transition.

#### Specify delay time

Your delay time interval will be displayed in a human-readable format on hover. For example, 15000ms will be displayed as 15 seconds.

1. Select the delayed transition.
2. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
3. Use the **Delay** text input to specify the interval in milliseconds.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use delayed transitions in XState?

Find out [more about delayed transitions in XState](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/after.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
