versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/eventless-transitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Eventless (always) transitions
description: 'Eventless transitions (also known as always transitions) are transitions without events. These transitions are always taken.'
---

**Eventless transitions** are transitions without events. These transitions are *always* taken after any transition in their state is enabled.

Eventless transitions are labeled “always” and often referred to as “always” transitions.

## Make an event into an eventless transition

First, select the event you want to replace with an eventless transition. Then…

### On the canvas

1. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
2. From the **Event type** options, choose **Always** to turn the event into an eventless transition.

### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. From the **Event type** dropdown menu, choose **Always** to turn the event into an eventless transition.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use eventless transitions in XState?

Find out [more about eventless transitions in XState](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/always.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/eventless-transitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Eventless (always) transitions
description: 'Eventless transitions (also known as always transitions) are transitions without events. These transitions are always taken.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about eventless (always) transitions in XState v5](/docs/eventless-transitions).

:::

**Eventless transitions** are transitions without events. These transitions are *always* taken after any transition in their state is enabled.

Eventless transitions are labeled “always” and often referred to as “always” transitions.

## Make an event into an eventless transition

First, select the event you want to replace with an eventless transition. Then…

### On the canvas

1. Right-click the state to open the edit menu.
2. From the **Event type** options, choose **Always** to turn the event into an eventless transition.

### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. From the **Event type** dropdown menu, choose **Always** to turn the event into an eventless transition.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use eventless transitions in XState?

Find out [more about eventless transitions in XState](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/always.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
