versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/guards.mdx, before:

---
title: Guards
description: 'A guard is a condition that the machine checks when it goes through an event. If the condition is true, the machine follows the transition to the next state.'
---

A **guard** is a condition that the machine checks when it goes through an event. If the condition is true, the machine follows the transition to the next state. If the condition is false, the machine follows the rest of the conditions to the next state. Any transition can be a guarded transition.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="A video player state machine with an initial Paused State and a Playing state. The transition from Playing to Paused has a guard numbered 1 and labeled ‘If time left is zero’. The first guard is joined to a second guard by a dotted line. The second guard is numbered 2 and is labeled ‘Else if time left is more than zero.’ The second guard’s transition targets the Playing state."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/transitions-and-events/guards/guards.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/guards/guards-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, guards are numbered in the order they are checked and labeled with “if” or “else if” along with their condition. Multiple guards on the same events are connected with a dotted line.

:::

<!--TODO: Why you might use a guard with example.-->

## Replace event with a guard

When multiple guard conditions are added to one transition, the guards will be numbered in order. The first guard will be labeled **IF** and subsequent guards will be labeled **ELSE**.

### On the canvas

1. Select the event you want to replace with a guarded transition.
2. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Guard condition** from the menu to add a guarded transition.
4. Enter your condition into the text input.

### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Use the **Guard** text input to name your guard’s condition and replace your event with a guarded transition.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use guards in XState?

Find out [more about guards in XState](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/guards.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::

Commit message:

Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/guards.mdx, after:

---
title: Guards
description: 'A guard is a condition that the machine checks when it goes through an event. If the condition is true, the machine follows the transition to the next state.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

[Read about guards in XState v5](/docs/guards).

:::

A **guard** is a condition that the machine checks when it goes through an event. If the condition is true, the machine follows the transition to the next state. If the condition is false, the machine follows the rest of the conditions to the next state. Any transition can be a guarded transition.

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="A video player state machine with an initial Paused State and a Playing state. The transition from Playing to Paused has a guard numbered 1 and labeled ‘If time left is zero’. The first guard is joined to a second guard by a dotted line. The second guard is numbered 2 and is labeled ‘Else if time left is more than zero.’ The second guard’s transition targets the Playing state."
    sources={{
      light: '/assets/transitions-and-events/guards/guards.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/guards/guards-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

:::studio

In the Stately Studio, guards are numbered in the order they are checked and labeled with “if” or “else if” along with their condition. Multiple guards on the same events are connected with a dotted line.

:::

<!--TODO: Why you might use a guard with example.-->

## Replace event with a guard

When multiple guard conditions are added to one transition, the guards will be numbered in order. The first guard will be labeled **IF** and subsequent guards will be labeled **ELSE**.

### On the canvas

1. Select the event you want to replace with a guarded transition.
2. Use the <Plus size={18} /> plus icon button to open the edit menu.
3. Choose **Guard condition** from the menu to add a guarded transition.
4. Enter your condition into the text input.

### Using the transition Details panel

1. Open the transition <Info size={18} /> **Details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Use the **Guard** text input to name your guard’s condition and replace your event with a guarded transition.

:::xstate

## Looking for how to use guards in XState?

Find out [more about guards in XState](/xstate/transitions-and-choices/guards.mdx) in the XState section of the docs.

:::
