versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/invoke-done-events.mdx, before:

---
title: Invoke done events
description: 'An invoke done event transitions from a state once its invocation has been completed. An invoke done event is labeled “done:” followed by the invocation’s ID.'
---

An **invoke done event** transitions from a state once its invocation has been completed. An invoke done event is labeled “done:” followed by the invocation’s ID.

<!-- TODO: Why you might use invoke done events with example -->

### Create invoke done events

1. Select the state with an invoked actor where you want to add an invoke done event.
2. Drag from the handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.
3. The newly-created event will automatically be created as an invoke done event.

You can also change an existing event into an invoked done event using the **quick actions** menu:

1. Select the existing event you wish to change into an invoke done event.
2. Right-click the state to open the **quick actions** menu.
3. Choose **Invocation done event** from the **Event type** options.

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/invoke-done-events.mdx, after:

---
title: Invoke done events
description: 'An invoke done event transitions from a state once its invocation has been completed. An invoke done event is labeled “done:” followed by the invocation’s ID.'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

:::

An **invoke done event** transitions from a state once its invocation has been completed. An invoke done event is labeled “done:” followed by the invocation’s ID.

### Create invoke done events

1. Select the state with an invoked actor where you want to add an invoke done event.
2. Drag from the handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.
3. The newly-created event will automatically be created as an invoke done event.

You can also change an existing event into an invoked done event using the **quick actions** menu:

1. Select the existing event you wish to change into an invoke done event.
2. Right-click the state to open the **quick actions** menu.
3. Choose **Invocation done event** from the **Event type** options.
