versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/state-done-events.mdx, before:

---
title: State done events
description: 'A state done event transitions from a parent state when one of its child states reaches its final state. State done events are labeled “onDone.”'
---

A **state done event** transitions from a parent state when one of its child states reaches its final state. State done events are labeled “onDone.”

:::video

Watch our [“What are state done events?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3laC3gWBLnM&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=11) (1m16s).

:::

<!-- TODO: write more about why you might use an onDone event -->

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s an onDone event from the parent Opened state back to the Closed state."
    sources={{
      light:
        '/assets/transitions-and-events/state-done-events/state-done-events.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/state-done-events/state-done-events-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

In the video player above, when the video player reaches the *Stopped* state, the *Opened* state transitions through the *onDone* state done event to the *Closed* state.

## How to add a state done event to a parent state

1. Check the final child state has its state type set to **Final**. If the parent state doesn’t contain a final child state, the state done event type will not be available for transitions from the parent state.
2. Select the parent state.
3. Drag from the handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.
4. Select the newly-created event. Then…

### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the state to open the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **State done event** from the **Event type** options.

### Using the **Transition details** panel

1. Open the **Transition details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Choose **State done event** from the **Event type** dropdown menu.

Commit message:

Use custom admonitions instead of v4 banner on v4 docs (#312)
* Replace V4 banner with custom deprecation admonitions for each page

* Add admonitions to every XState v4 page directing to relevant v5 docs

* Fix broken urls

versioned_docs/version-4/transitions-and-events/state-done-events.mdx, after:

---
title: State done events
description: 'A state done event transitions from a parent state when one of its child states reaches its final state. State done events are labeled “onDone.”'
---

:::warning

**Docs for XState v4 are no longer maintained** 

This page is no longer maintained as [XState V5 has been released](/blog/2023-12-01-xstate-v5).

:::

A **state done event** transitions from a parent state when one of its child states reaches its final state. State done events are labeled “onDone.”

:::video

Watch our [“What are state done events?” video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3laC3gWBLnM&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd4I_l-djWVU2UGPyBgKfnTQ&index=11) (1m16s).

:::

<!-- TODO: write more about why you might use an onDone event -->

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Video player state machine containing closed and opened states. On the Play event, the Closed state transitions to the Opened state. The Opened state invokes a startVideo actor and has a description of “The video player should be in full-screen mode.” The Opened state contains Playing and Paused states, which are transitioned between using the Pause and Play events. There’s a Stop event from the Opened state that transitions to the final state of Stopped. There’s an onDone event from the parent Opened state back to the Closed state."
    sources={{
      light:
        '/assets/transitions-and-events/state-done-events/state-done-events.png',
      dark: '/assets/transitions-and-events/state-done-events/state-done-events-dm.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

In the video player above, when the video player reaches the *Stopped* state, the *Opened* state transitions through the *onDone* state done event to the *Closed* state.

## How to add a state done event to a parent state

1. Check the final child state has its state type set to **Final**. If the parent state doesn’t contain a final child state, the state done event type will not be available for transitions from the parent state.
2. Select the parent state.
3. Drag from the handles on the left, right and bottom sides of the selected state, and release to create a connecting transition, event and new state.
4. Select the newly-created event. Then…

### Using the **quick actions** menu

1. Right-click the state to open the **quick actions** menu.
2. Choose **State done event** from the **Event type** options.

### Using the **Transition details** panel

1. Open the **Transition details** panel from the right tool menu.
2. Choose **State done event** from the **Event type** dropdown menu.
