docs/xstate/model-based-testing/event-cases.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Event cases'
---

# Event cases

<!-- deps: ["xstate-test-assertions"] -->

Sometimes you want to test your system with a variety of different values. For example, you might be testing a payment system where you can pay with many different currencies, and you need to ensure that `GBP`, `EUR` and `USD` all work.

You can use `eventCases` to test with these different values:

```ts
const machine = createTestMachine({
  initial: 'onPaymentPage',
  states: {
    onPaymentPage: {
      on: {
        SUBMIT_PAYMENT_FORM: 'submitted',
      },
    },
    submitted: {},
  },
});

const model = createTestModel({
  eventCases: {
    SUBMIT_PAYMENT_FORM: [
      {
        currency: 'GBP',
      },
      {
        currency: 'USD',
      },
      {
        currency: 'EUR',
      },
    ],
  },
});

model.getPaths().forEach((path) => {
  it(path.description, () => {
    path.testSync({
      events: ({ event }) => {
        /**
         * Select the currency from the event.currency
         */
        cy.findByLabelText('Currency').select(event.currency);

        /**
         * Submit the form
         */
        cy.findByRole('button', {
          name: 'Submit',
        }).click();
      },
    });
  });
});
```

Using `eventCases` will create a _different path for each case_. In the example above, the test model will test that each currency can be submitted.

Commit message:

More search engine optimisation (#171)
* Paginate blog posts to improve performance

* Fix tip box at end of actors page

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Add meta descriptions for coc and privacy pages

Towards STA-4286

* Start writing custom meta descriptions for docs pages

* Change site title to Stately docs and blog

Towards STA-4518

* Take back change of title, as not SEO-friendly in length

* Shorten over-long blog post titles for SEO

* Fix typo

* Add/improve meta descriptions for model-based testing section.

* Improve meta descriptions for XState package docs

docs/xstate/model-based-testing/event-cases.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Event cases'
description: 'Model-based testing with XState: how to use eventCases in your test model to test your system with a variety of different values.'
---

# Event cases

Sometimes you want to test your system with a variety of different values. For example, you might be testing a payment system where you can pay with many different currencies, and you need to ensure that `GBP`, `EUR` and `USD` all work.

You can use `eventCases` to test with these different values:

```ts
const machine = createTestMachine({
  initial: 'onPaymentPage',
  states: {
    onPaymentPage: {
      on: {
        SUBMIT_PAYMENT_FORM: 'submitted',
      },
    },
    submitted: {},
  },
});

const model = createTestModel({
  eventCases: {
    SUBMIT_PAYMENT_FORM: [
      {
        currency: 'GBP',
      },
      {
        currency: 'USD',
      },
      {
        currency: 'EUR',
      },
    ],
  },
});

model.getPaths().forEach((path) => {
  it(path.description, () => {
    path.testSync({
      events: ({ event }) => {
        /**
         * Select the currency from the event.currency
         */
        cy.findByLabelText('Currency').select(event.currency);

        /**
         * Submit the form
         */
        cy.findByRole('button', {
          name: 'Submit',
        }).click();
      },
    });
  });
});
```

Using `eventCases` will create a _different path for each case_. In the example above, the test model will test that each currency can be submitted.
