docs/xstate/model-based-testing/when-to-use.mdx, before:

---
title: 'When to use XState Test'
---

# When to use `@xstate/test`

<!-- deps: ["testing-intro"] -->

When you discover a new tool, it’s tempting to use that tool for everything. Model-based testing is good for many use cases but not for all use cases.

Let’s explore what makes a _good_ candidate for model-based testing.

## Long setup

`@xstate/test` is most useful when what you’re testing requires a **lengthy, complex setup**. For example, if you were manually testing a multi-step form, you might need to input the same fields again and again to perform the tests.

In these situations, `@xstate/test` shines because it can automate a lot of the setup for you over multiple tests.

However, many tests require no setup at all. Take the following function for example:

```ts
const add = (a: number, b: number) => {
  return a + b;
};
```

The `add` function requires _no_ setup whatsoever and can be tested as follows:

```js
it('Should add numbers together', () => {
  expect(add(1, 2)).toEqual(3);
});
```

In general, you should **avoid using model-based testing in situations that require no setup**.

### Examples of long setups

- Testing **frontend applications** that can be in complex states.
- Testing **backend methods** where the database needs to be set up into a certain state before it can be tested.
- Testing flows with **mocked dependencies** which need to be set up in different ways before assertions are run.

### Examples of short setups

- Testing [pure functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function) which take in an input and return a predictable output without firing [side effects](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)>).

Commit message:

Add/improve meta descriptions for model-based testing section.

docs/xstate/model-based-testing/when-to-use.mdx, after:

---
title: 'When to use XState Test'
description: 'Model-based testing with XState: Model-based testing is good for many use cases but not for all use cases. What makes a good candidate for model-based testing?'
---

# When to use `@xstate/test`

<!-- deps: ["testing-intro"] -->

When you discover a new tool, it’s tempting to use that tool for everything. Model-based testing is good for many use cases but not for all use cases.

Let’s explore what makes a _good_ candidate for model-based testing.

## Long setup

`@xstate/test` is most useful when what you’re testing requires a **lengthy, complex setup**. For example, if you were manually testing a multi-step form, you might need to input the same fields again and again to perform the tests.

In these situations, `@xstate/test` shines because it can automate a lot of the setup for you over multiple tests.

However, many tests require no setup at all. Take the following function for example:

```ts
const add = (a: number, b: number) => {
  return a + b;
};
```

The `add` function requires _no_ setup whatsoever and can be tested as follows:

```js
it('Should add numbers together', () => {
  expect(add(1, 2)).toEqual(3);
});
```

In general, you should **avoid using model-based testing in situations that require no setup**.

### Examples of long setups

- Testing **frontend applications** that can be in complex states.
- Testing **backend methods** where the database needs to be set up into a certain state before it can be tested.
- Testing flows with **mocked dependencies** which need to be set up in different ways before assertions are run.

### Examples of short setups

- Testing [pure functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function) which take in an input and return a predictable output without firing [side effects](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)>).
