docs/xstate/actors/actions-vs-actors.mdx, before:

---
title: Actions vs. actors
---

# Actions vs. actors

<!-- deps: ["actors", "actions", "promise-actors"] -->

Sometimes it’s unclear whether you should use an action or an actor. Both appear to do similar things, executing side effects. Let’s break down the differences:

Actions are “fire-and-forget”; as soon as their execution starts, the statechart running the actions forgets about them. If you specify an action as `async`, **the action won’t be awaited before moving to the next state**. Below is an example:

```ts twoslash
const createUser = async (userName: string) => {};
// ---cut---
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userName: '',
    },
    initial: 'collectingFormDetails',
    states: {
      collectingFormDetails: {
        on: {
          SUBMIT: {
            actions: 'submitForm',
            target: 'submitted',
          },
        },
      },
      submitted: {},
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      submitForm: async (context) => {
        await createUser(context.userName);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

You might think that the sequence would work as follows:

1. In the `collectingFormDetails` state, we receive the `SUBMIT` event.
2. We execute the `submitForm` action and wait for it to finish.
3. When the `submitForm` action is done, we go to the `submitted` state.

Instead, the sequence works like this:

1. In the `collectingFormDetails` state, we receive the `SUBMIT` event.
2. We execute the `submitForm` action and immediately transition to the `submitted` state.
3. The result of the `submitForm` action is ignored.

To handle `submitForm` properly, we need to use an actor:

```ts twoslash {13, 17-27}
const createUser = async (userName: string) => {};
// ---cut---
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userName: '',
    },
    initial: 'collectingFormDetails',
    states: {
      collectingFormDetails: {
        on: {
          SUBMIT: {
            target: 'submitting',
          },
        },
      },
      submitting: {
        invoke: {
          src: 'submitForm',
          onDone: {
            target: 'submitted',
          },
          onError: {
            target: 'errored',
          },
        },
      },
      errored: {},
      submitted: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      submitForm: async (context) => {
        await createUser(context.userName);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

Now, the sequence in the example above is:

1. In the `collectingFormDetails` state, we receive the `SUBMIT` event.
2. We go to the `submitting` state, where we execute the `submitForm` actor.
3. When the `submitForm` actor is done, we go to the `submitted` state.
4. If the `submitForm` actor errors, we go to the `errored` state.

The main difference between actions and actors is that **actions can’t communicate back to the machine. Actors can.**

Commit message:

Flag existing XState v5 content with admonitions explaining v5 alpha

docs/xstate/actors/actions-vs-actors.mdx, after:

---
title: Actions vs. actors
---

# Actions vs. actors

<!-- deps: ["actors", "actions", "promise-actors"] -->

Sometimes it’s unclear whether you should use an action or an actor. Both appear to do similar things, executing side effects. Let’s break down the differences:

Actions are “fire-and-forget”; as soon as their execution starts, the statechart running the actions forgets about them. If you specify an action as `async`, **the action won’t be awaited before moving to the next state**. Below is an example:

```ts twoslash
const createUser = async (userName: string) => {};
// ---cut---
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userName: '',
    },
    initial: 'collectingFormDetails',
    states: {
      collectingFormDetails: {
        on: {
          SUBMIT: {
            actions: 'submitForm',
            target: 'submitted',
          },
        },
      },
      submitted: {},
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      submitForm: async (context) => {
        await createUser(context.userName);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

You might think that the sequence would work as follows:

1. In the `collectingFormDetails` state, we receive the `SUBMIT` event.
2. We execute the `submitForm` action and wait for it to finish.
3. When the `submitForm` action is done, we go to the `submitted` state.

Instead, the sequence works like this:

1. In the `collectingFormDetails` state, we receive the `SUBMIT` event.
2. We execute the `submitForm` action and immediately transition to the `submitted` state.
3. The result of the `submitForm` action is ignored.

To handle `submitForm` properly, we need to use an actor:

```ts twoslash {13, 17-27}
const createUser = async (userName: string) => {};
// ---cut---
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userName: '',
    },
    initial: 'collectingFormDetails',
    states: {
      collectingFormDetails: {
        on: {
          SUBMIT: {
            target: 'submitting',
          },
        },
      },
      submitting: {
        invoke: {
          src: 'submitForm',
          onDone: {
            target: 'submitted',
          },
          onError: {
            target: 'errored',
          },
        },
      },
      errored: {},
      submitted: {},
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      submitForm: async (context) => {
        await createUser(context.userName);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in alpha. [Check out XState v5 Alpha on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-alpha.1).

:::


Now, the sequence in the example above is:

1. In the `collectingFormDetails` state, we receive the `SUBMIT` event.
2. We go to the `submitting` state, where we execute the `submitForm` actor.
3. When the `submitForm` actor is done, we go to the `submitted` state.
4. If the `submitForm` actor errors, we go to the `errored` state.

The main difference between actions and actors is that **actions can’t communicate back to the machine. Actors can.**
