docs/xstate/actors/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: Actors
---

# Actors

<!-- deps: ["options-intro","running-machines-intro","the-root-node"] -->

When you run a statechart, it becomes an _actor_, a running process that can receive events. Often, you’ll need your actor to run _other actors_; spawning new statecharts, waiting for promises, or subscribing to observables.

We use the `invoke` attribute on a state to _invoke_ an actor in our machine. You can invoke an actor on any state, including the root node.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: 'someActor',
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      /**
       * The actor is defined here
       */
      someActor: async () => {},
    },
  }
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in beta. [Check out XState v5 Beta on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-beta.13).

:::

You can also run several invocations at the same time by specifying `invoke` as an array:

```ts 
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: [
      {
        src: 'someActor',
      },
      {
        src: 'someOtherActor',
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5      
    services: {
      someActor: async () => {},
      someOtherActor: async () => {},
    },
  }
);
```

Running several invocations simultaneously is useful when you want several sub-processes running on the same state.

Commit message:

More search engine optimisation (#171)
* Paginate blog posts to improve performance

* Fix tip box at end of actors page

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Fix broken URL

* Add meta descriptions for coc and privacy pages

Towards STA-4286

* Start writing custom meta descriptions for docs pages

* Change site title to Stately docs and blog

Towards STA-4518

* Take back change of title, as not SEO-friendly in length

* Shorten over-long blog post titles for SEO

* Fix typo

* Add/improve meta descriptions for model-based testing section.

* Improve meta descriptions for XState package docs

docs/xstate/actors/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: Actors
description: 'When you run a statechart, it becomes an actor, a running process that can receive events. Often, you’ll need your actor to run other actors.'
---

# Actors

When you run a statechart, it becomes an _actor_, a running process that can receive events. Often, you’ll need your actor to run _other actors_; spawning new statecharts, waiting for promises, or subscribing to observables.

We use the `invoke` attribute on a state to _invoke_ an actor in our machine. You can invoke an actor on any state, including the root node.

```ts
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: {
      src: 'someActor',
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      /**
       * The actor is defined here
       */
      someActor: async () => {},
    },
  }
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in beta. [Check out XState v5 Beta on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-beta.13).

:::

You can also run several invocations at the same time by specifying `invoke` as an array:

```ts 
import { createMachine } from 'xstate';

const machine = createMachine(
  {
    invoke: [
      {
        src: 'someActor',
      },
      {
        src: 'someOtherActor',
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5      
    services: {
      someActor: async () => {},
      someOtherActor: async () => {},
    },
  }
);
```

Running several invocations simultaneously is useful when you want several sub-processes running on the same state.
