docs/xstate/actors/promises.mdx, before:

---
title: Promises
---

<!-- Needs technical review -->

<!-- deps: ["actors", "actions", "guards"] -->

The most common type of actors you’ll invoke are **promise actors**. Promise actors allow you to await the result of a promise before deciding what to do next.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

// Function that returns a promise
// This promise might resolve with, e.g.,
// { name: 'David', location: 'Florida' }
const fetchUser = (userId: number) =>
  fetch(`url/to/user/${userId}`).then((response) => response.json());

const userMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userId: 42,
    },
    invoke: { src: 'fetchUser' },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      fetchUser: (context) => {
        return fetchUser(context.userId);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

When a promise actor is resolved, a `done.invoke` event is sent back to the machine which includes its data, placed under the `data` property. For example:

```js
{
  type: 'done.invoke.<id>',
  data: {
    name: 'David',
    location: 'Florida'
  }
}
```

You can listen for this event by providing an `onDone` to the invoke attribute:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

// Function that returns a promise
// This promise might resolve with, e.g.,
// { name: 'David', location: 'Florida' }
const fetchUser = (userId: number) =>
  fetch(`url/to/user/${userId}`).then((response) => response.json());

// ---cut---

const userMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userId: 42,
    },
    invoke: {
      src: 'fetchUser',
      onDone: [
        {
          cond: 'hasData',
          actions: 'logUserData',
        },
      ],
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      fetchUser: (context) => {
        return fetchUser(context.userId);
      },
    },
    guards: {
      hasData: (context, event) => {
        return Boolean(event.data);
      },
    },
    actions: {
      logUserData: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.data);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

If the state where the invoked promise is active is exited before the promise settles, the result of the promise is discarded.

If the promise errors, an `error.platform.<id>` event will be fired, with the error on the `data` attribute. You can listen for this error by adding `onError` to your `invoke` attribute:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

// Function that returns a promise
// This promise might resolve with, e.g.,
// { name: 'David', location: 'Florida' }
const fetchUser = (userId: number) =>
  fetch(`url/to/user/${userId}`).then((response) => response.json());

// ---cut---

const userMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userId: 42,
    },
    invoke: {
      src: 'fetchUser',
      onError: {
        actions: 'consoleLogError',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      consoleLogError: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.data.message);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

In the example above, if `fetchUser` fails, the error message will be logged to the console.

If the `onError` transition is missing and the Promise is rejected, the error will be ignored, which is why it’s important _always_ to define `onError` transitions.

The `onDone` and `onError` transitions are just like any other transition. You can use conds, fire actions and target other states. These transitions give you a declarative way of handling successes and errors.

### `onDone` in invoke vs. `onDone` in states

Note that the `onDone` in invoke and the `onDone` on states are different. The `onDone` for states is triggered when its child reaches a final state.

Commit message:

Flag existing XState v5 content with admonitions explaining v5 alpha

docs/xstate/actors/promises.mdx, after:

---
title: Promises
---

<!-- Needs technical review -->

<!-- deps: ["actors", "actions", "guards"] -->

The most common type of actors you’ll invoke are **promise actors**. Promise actors allow you to await the result of a promise before deciding what to do next.

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

// Function that returns a promise
// This promise might resolve with, e.g.,
// { name: 'David', location: 'Florida' }
const fetchUser = (userId: number) =>
  fetch(`url/to/user/${userId}`).then((response) => response.json());

const userMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userId: 42,
    },
    invoke: { src: 'fetchUser' },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      fetchUser: (context) => {
        return fetchUser(context.userId);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

:::warningxstate

XState v5 is in alpha. [Check out XState v5 Alpha on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate/v/5.0.0-alpha.1).

:::

When a promise actor is resolved, a `done.invoke` event is sent back to the machine which includes its data, placed under the `data` property. For example:

```js
{
  type: 'done.invoke.<id>',
  data: {
    name: 'David',
    location: 'Florida'
  }
}
```

You can listen for this event by providing an `onDone` to the invoke attribute:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

// Function that returns a promise
// This promise might resolve with, e.g.,
// { name: 'David', location: 'Florida' }
const fetchUser = (userId: number) =>
  fetch(`url/to/user/${userId}`).then((response) => response.json());

// ---cut---

const userMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userId: 42,
    },
    invoke: {
      src: 'fetchUser',
      onDone: [
        {
          cond: 'hasData',
          actions: 'logUserData',
        },
      ],
    },
  },
  {
    // `actors` in v5
    services: {
      fetchUser: (context) => {
        return fetchUser(context.userId);
      },
    },
    guards: {
      hasData: (context, event) => {
        return Boolean(event.data);
      },
    },
    actions: {
      logUserData: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.data);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

If the state where the invoked promise is active is exited before the promise settles, the result of the promise is discarded.

If the promise errors, an `error.platform.<id>` event will be fired, with the error on the `data` attribute. You can listen for this error by adding `onError` to your `invoke` attribute:

```ts twoslash
import { createMachine, assign } from 'xstate';

// Function that returns a promise
// This promise might resolve with, e.g.,
// { name: 'David', location: 'Florida' }
const fetchUser = (userId: number) =>
  fetch(`url/to/user/${userId}`).then((response) => response.json());

// ---cut---

const userMachine = createMachine(
  {
    context: {
      userId: 42,
    },
    invoke: {
      src: 'fetchUser',
      onError: {
        actions: 'consoleLogError',
      },
    },
  },
  {
    actions: {
      consoleLogError: (context, event) => {
        console.log(event.data.message);
      },
    },
  }
);
```

In the example above, if `fetchUser` fails, the error message will be logged to the console.

If the `onError` transition is missing and the Promise is rejected, the error will be ignored, which is why it’s important _always_ to define `onError` transitions.

The `onDone` and `onError` transitions are just like any other transition. You can use conds, fire actions and target other states. These transitions give you a declarative way of handling successes and errors.

### `onDone` in invoke vs. `onDone` in states

Note that the `onDone` in invoke and the `onDone` on states are different. The `onDone` for states is triggered when its child reaches a final state.
